Skip to content

###  It’s a wonderful world — and universe — out there.

**Come explore with us!**

Subscribe / Renew Now

Menu

    * All Topics
      * Life
      * Humans
      * Earth
      * Space
      * Tech
    * Science News
    * Menu
      * All Stories
      * Collections
      * Explainers
      * Word of the Week
      * Experiments
      * Analyze This
      * Technically Fiction
      * Action for Earth
      * Cool Jobs
      * Invention & Innovation
      * Classroom Questions
    * About Us
    * Education Resources

Donate

## Science News Explores

Search

Open search Close search

## Science News Explores

    * All Topics 
      * Earth 
        * Environment 
        * Climate 
        * Oceans 
        * Agriculture 
      * Humans 
        * Health & Medicine 
        * Psychology 
        * Archaeology 
      * Life 
        * Animals 
        * Brain 
        * Plants 
        * Fossils 
        * Ecosystems 
        * Microbes 
        * Genetics 
      * Physics 
        * Materials Science 
      * Space 
        * Planets 
      * Tech 
        * Computing 
        * Artificial Intelligence 
      * Chemistry 
      * Math 
      * Science & Society 
All Topics

    * Life
      * Life 
        * Animals 
        * Brain 
        * Plants 
        * Fossils 
        * Ecosystems 
        * Microbes 
        * Genetics 
      * ## Recent posts in Life

        * Animals 

###  Butts of these fly larvae mimic a termite’s face

By Gennaro Tomma7 hours ago

        * Microbes 

###  Living lenses? Glass-coated microbes might take better photos

By Katie CottinghamApril 18, 2025

        * Health & Medicine 

###  Scratching an itch has both good effects and bad

By Laura SandersApril 16, 2025

    * Humans
      * Humans 
        * Health & Medicine 
        * Psychology 
        * Archaeology 
      * ## Recent posts in Humans

        * Chemistry 

###  Scientists Say: Vitamin

By Katie Grace Carpenter7 hours ago

        * Health & Medicine 

###  Scratching an itch has both good effects and bad

By Laura SandersApril 16, 2025

        * Health & Medicine 

###  Explainer: What is asthma and how is it treated?

By Sejal ParekhApril 14, 2025

    * Earth
      * Earth 
        * Environment 
        * Climate 
        * Oceans 
        * Agriculture 
      * ## Recent posts in Earth

        * Earth 

###  Let’s learn about the carbon cycle

By Maria TemmingApril 15, 2025

        * Environment 

###  More and more, microplastics are collecting in our brains

By Laura Sanders and Janet RaloffApril 9, 2025

        * Tech 

###  Scientists Say: Agrivoltaics

By Katie Grace CarpenterApril 7, 2025

    * Space
      * Space 
        * Planets 
      * ## Recent posts in Space

        * Space 

###  The universe: How will it end?

By Stephen OrnesApril 17, 2025

        * Chemistry 

###  Scientists Say: Nucleosynthesis

By Katie Grace CarpenterMarch 24, 2025

        * Planets 

###  Pluto and its moon Charon may have paired up with a kiss

By Lisa GrossmanMarch 10, 2025

    * Tech
      * Tech 
        * Computing 
        * Artificial Intelligence 
      * ## Recent posts in Tech

        * Microbes 

###  Living lenses? Glass-coated microbes might take better photos

By Katie CottinghamApril 18, 2025

        * Tech 

###  Scientists Say: Agrivoltaics

By Katie Grace CarpenterApril 7, 2025

        * Tech 

###  Experiment: Make the fastest rubber band paddleboat

By Science BuddiesApril 1, 2025

Plants

#  Explainer: How photosynthesis works

Plants make sugar and oxygen with the power of water, carbon dioxide and
sunlight

Green plants take in light from the sun and turn water and carbon dioxide into
the oxygen we breathe and the sugars we eat.

Jeja/E+/Getty Images

### Share this:

    * Email
    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Pinterest
    * Reddit
    * Google Classroom
    * Print

By Bethany Brookshire

October 28, 2020 at 6:30 am

Take a deep breath. Then thank a plant. If you eat fruit, vegetables, grains
or potatoes, thank a plant too.  Plants and algae provide us with the oxygen
we need to survive, as well as the carbohydrates we use for energy. They do it
all through photosynthesis.

Photosynthesis is the process of creating sugar and oxygen from carbon
dioxide, water and sunlight. It happens through a long series of chemical
reactions. But it can be summarized like this: Carbon dioxide, water and light
go in. Glucose, water and oxygen come out. (Glucose is a simple sugar.)

Photosynthesis can be split into two processes. The “photo” part refers to
reactions triggered by light. “Synthesis” — the making of the sugar — is a
separate process called the Calvin cycle.

Both processes happen inside a chloroplast. This is a specialized structure,
or organelle, in a plant cell. The structure contains stacks of membranes
called thylakoid membranes. That’s where the light reaction begins.

Chloroplasts are found in plant cells. This is where photosynthesis takes
place. The chlorophyll molecules that take in energy from sunlight are located
in the stacks called thylakoid membranes. blueringmedia/iStock/Getty Images
Plus

#### Let the light shine in

When light hits a plant’s leaves, it shines on chloroplasts and into their
thylakoid membranes. Those membranes are filled with chlorophyll, a green
pigment. This pigment absorbs light energy. Light travels as electromagnetic
waves. The wavelength — distance between waves — determines energy level. Some
of those wavelengths are visible to us as the colors we see. If a molecule,
such as chlorophyll, has the right shape, it can absorb the energy from some
wavelengths of light.

Chlorophyll can absorb light we see as blue and red. That’s why we see plants
as green. Green is the wavelength plants reflect, not the color they absorb.

While light travels as a wave, it also can be a particle called a photon.
Photons have no mass. They do, however, have a small amount of light energy.

When a photon of light from the sun bounces into a leaf, its energy excites a
chlorophyll molecule. That photon starts a process that splits a molecule of
water. The oxygen atom that splits off from the water instantly bonds with
another, creating a molecule of oxygen, or O2. The chemical reaction also
produces a molecule called ATP and another molecule called NADPH. Both of
these allow a cell to store energy. The ATP and NADPH also will take part in
the synthesis part of photosynthesis.

Notice that the light reaction makes no sugar. Instead, it supplies energy —
stored in the ATP and NADPH — that gets plugged into the Calvin cycle. This is
where sugar is made.

But the light reaction does produce something we use: oxygen. All the oxygen
we breathe is the result of this step in photosynthesis, carried out by plants
and algae (which are not plants) the world over.

#### Give me some sugar

The next step takes the energy from the light reaction and applies it to a
process called the Calvin cycle. The cycle is named for Melvin Calvin, the man
who discovered it.

The Calvin cycle is sometimes also called the dark reaction because none of
its steps require light. But it still happens during the day. That’s because
it needs the energy produced by the light reaction that comes before it.

While the light reaction takes place in the thylakoid membranes, the ATP and
NADPH it produces end up in the stroma. This is the space inside the
chloroplast but outside the thylakoid membranes.

#### The Calvin cycle has four major steps:

    1. **carbon fixation** : Here, the plant brings in CO2 and attaches it to another carbon molecule, using rubisco. This is an enzyme, or chemical that makes reactions move faster. This step is so important that rubisco is the most common protein in a chloroplast — and on Earth. Rubisco attaches the carbon in CO2 to a five-carbon molecule called ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (or RuBP). This creates a six-carbon molecule, which immediately splits into two chemicals, each with three carbons.  

    2. **reduction** : The ATP and NADPH from the light reaction pop in and transform the two three-carbon molecules into two small sugar molecules. The sugar molecules are called G3P. That’s short for glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (GLIH- sur-AAL-duh-hide 3-FOS-fayt).  

    3. **carbohydrate formation** : Some of that G3P leaves the cycle to be converted into bigger sugars such as glucose (C6H12O6).  

    4. **regeneration** : With more ATP from the continuing light reaction, leftover G3P picks up two more carbons to become RuBP. This RuBP pairs up with rubisco again. They are now ready to start the Calvin cycle again when the next molecule of CO2 arrives.

At the end of photosynthesis, a plant ends up with glucose (C6H12O6), oxygen
(O2) and water (H2O). The glucose molecule goes on to bigger things. It can
become part of a long-chain molecule, such as cellulose; that’s the chemical
that makes up cell walls. Plants also can store the energy packed in a glucose
molecule within larger starch molecules. They can even put the glucose into
other sugars — such as fructose — to make a plant’s fruit sweet.

All of these molecules are carbohydrates — chemicals containing carbon, oxygen
and hydrogen. (CarbOHydrate makes it easy to remember.) The plant uses the
bonds in these chemicals to store energy. But we use the these chemicals too.
Carbohydrates are an important part of the foods we eat, particularly grains,
potatoes, fruits and vegetables.

We eat plants for food. But plants make their own food. This video explains
how.

###  Power Words

More About Power Words

**algae** : Single-celled organisms, once considered plants (they aren’t). As
aquatic organisms, they grow in water. Like green plants, they depend on
sunlight to make their food.

**atom** : The basic unit of a chemical element. Atoms are made up of a dense
nucleus that contains positively charged protons and uncharged neutrons. The
nucleus is orbited by a cloud of negatively charged electrons.

**ATP** : Short for adenosine triphosphate. Cells make this molecule to power
almost all of their activities. Cells use oxygen and simple sugars to create
this molecule, the main source of their energy. The small structures in cells
that carry out this energy-storing process are known as mitochondria. Like a
battery, ATP stores a bit of usable energy. Once the cell uses it up,
mitochondria must recharge the cell by making more ATP using energy harvested
from the cell’s nutrients.

**bond** : (in chemistry) A semi-permanent attachment between atoms — or
groups of atoms — in a molecule. It’s formed by an attractive force between
the participating atoms. Once bonded, the atoms will work as a unit. To
separate the component atoms, energy must be supplied to the molecule as heat
or some other type of radiation.

**Calvin cycle** : Named for Melvin Calvin, the man who discovered it, this
cycle is the process by which plants and algae turn carbon dioxide into basic
carbohydrates.

**carbohydrates** : Any of a large group of compounds occurring in foods and
living tissues, including sugars, starch and cellulose. They contain hydrogen
and oxygen in the same ratio as water (2:1) and typically can be broken down
in an animal’s body to release energy.

**carbon dioxide** : (or CO2) A colorless, odorless gas produced by all
animals when the oxygen they inhale reacts with the carbon-rich foods that
they’ve eaten. Carbon dioxide also is released when organic matter burns
(including fossil fuels like oil or gas). Carbon dioxide acts as a greenhouse
gas, trapping heat in Earth’s atmosphere. Plants convert carbon dioxide into
oxygen during photosynthesis, the process they use to make their own food.

**cell** : The smallest structural and functional unit of an organism.
Typically too small to see with the unaided eye, it consists of a watery fluid
surrounded by a membrane or wall. Depending on their size, animals are made of
anywhere from thousands to trillions of cells. Most organisms, such as yeasts,
molds, bacteria and some algae, are composed of only one cell.

**cellulose** : A type of fiber found in plant cell walls. It is formed by
chains of glucose molecules.

**chemical** : A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in
a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when
two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H2O.
Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are
the result of various reactions between different compounds.

**chemical reaction** : A process that involves the rearrangement of the
molecules or structure of a substance, as opposed to a change in physical form
(as from a solid to a gas).

**chlorophyll** : Any of several green pigments found in plants that perform
photosynthesis — creating sugars (foods) from carbon dioxide and water.

**chloroplast** : A tiny structure in the cells of green algae and green
plants that contain chlorophyll and creates glucose through photosynthesis.

**electromagnetic** : An adjective referring to light radiation, to magnetism
or to both.

**excite** : (in chemistry and physics) To transfer energy to one or more
outer electrons in an atom. They remain in this higher energy state until they
shed the extra energy through the emission of some type of radiation, such as
light.

**fructose** : A simple sugar. Along with glucose, fructose makes up half of
each molecule of sucrose (also known as table sugar).

**glucose** : A simple sugar that is an important energy source in living
organisms. As an energy source moving through the bloodstream, it is known as
“blood sugar.” It is half of the molecule that makes up table sugar (also
known as sucrose).

**glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate** or **G3P** : A molecule created as part of the
chemical steps that form simple carbohydrates. Two molecules of G3P are made
in plants and algae as part of the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis. Animals and
bacteria also create G3P as part of their own steps of making carbohydrate.

**hydrogen** : The lightest element in the universe. As a gas, it is
colorless, odorless and highly flammable. It’s an integral part of many fuels,
fats and chemicals that make up living tissues. It’s made of a single proton
(which serves as its nucleus) orbited by a single electron.

**mass** : A number that shows how much an object resists speeding up and
slowing down — basically a measure of how much matter that object is made
from.

**membrane** : A barrier which blocks the passage (or flow through) of some
materials depending on their size or other features. Membranes are an integral
part of filtration systems. Many serve that same function as the outer
covering of cells or organs of a body.

**molecule** : An electrically neutral group of atoms that represents the
smallest possible amount of a chemical compound. Molecules can be made of
single types of atoms or of different types. For example, the oxygen in the
air is made of two oxygen atoms (O2), but water is made of two hydrogen atoms
and one oxygen atom (H2O).

**NADPH or NADP+** : Short for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
(but no one calls it that). This molecule is a way for cells to store and
transfer energy. When the NADP+ molecule is transformed to NADPH, it contains
energy, which it can then use to power other reactions in a cell.

**organelle** : Specialized structures, such as mitochondria, found within a
cell.

**oxygen** : A gas that makes up about 21 percent of Earth's atmosphere. All
animals and many microorganisms need oxygen to fuel their growth (and
metabolism).

**particle** : A minute amount of something.

**photon** : A particle representing the smallest possible amount of light or
other type of electromagnetic radiation.

**photosynthesis** : (verb: photosynthesize) The process by which green plants
and some other organisms use sunlight to produce foods from carbon dioxide and
water.

**protein** : A compound made from one or more long chains of amino acids.
Proteins are an essential part of all living organisms. They form the basis of
living cells, muscle and tissues; they also do the work inside of cells. Among
the better-known, stand-alone proteins are the hemoglobin (in blood) and the
antibodies (also in blood) that attempt to fight infections. Medicines
frequently work by latching onto proteins.

**reduction** : (v. reduce) A chemical reaction that adds one or more
electrons. It’s also viewed as the opposite of oxidation. As rust oxidizes
iron, the process reduces those nearby oxygen atoms. That means that they gain
electrons, which have a negative charge.

**ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate** : (RuBP) A molecule that completes the first and
last steps of the Calvin cycle, which creates sugar out of carbon dioxide.
This molecule contains five carbons and binds to the enzyme rubisco. Rubisco
hooks up RuBP with carbon dioxide from the air, the first step in making a
carbohydrate.

**rubisco** : This acronym stands for ribulose bisphosphate
carboxylase/oxygenase. It is the most common protein on Earth. In its role as
an enzyme, it plays a pivotal role in photosynthesis.

**starch** : A soft white chemical made by all green plants. It’s a relatively
long molecule made from linking together a lot of smaller, identical building
blocks — all of them glucose, a simple sugar. Plants and animals use glucose
as an energy source. Plants store that glucose, in the form of starch, as a
reserve supply of energy. Animals that consume starch can break down the
starch into glucose molecules to extract the useful energy.

**stroma** : (in botany) The colorless fluid inside a chloroplast, where the
Calvin cycle portion of photosynthesis takes place. (in anatomy) The
supportive structure surrounding an organ. It includes the connective tissue
that holds the organ in place and the blood vessels that bring the organ
oxygen and sugars.

**synthesis** : (v. synthesize) The production of a substance by the combining
of simpler chemical building blocks.

**thylakoid membranes** : An internal system of connected membranes inside a
chloroplast. The membranes contain not only the green pigment chlorophyll, but
also proteins. These membranes are where the light reaction portion of
photosynthesis takes place, producing oxygen and energy to power the sugar-
making portions of photosynthesis.

**wavelength** : The distance between one peak and the next in a series of
waves, or the distance between one trough and the next. It’s also one of the
“yardsticks” used to measure radiation. Visible light — which, like all
electromagnetic radiation, travels in waves — includes wavelengths between
about 380 nanometers (violet) and about 740 nanometers (red). Radiation with
wavelengths shorter than visible light includes gamma rays, X-rays and
ultraviolet light. Longer-wavelength radiation includes infrared light,
microwaves and radio waves.

### Citations

**Book:​** ​​N.A. Campbell, J.B. Reese and L.G. Mitchell. Biology, 5th
Edition. Benjamin-Cummings Publication Co., 1999.

### About Bethany Brookshire

    * X

Bethany Brookshire was a longtime staff writer at  _Science News Explores_ and
is the author of the book  _Pests: How Humans Create Animal Villains_. She has
a Ph.D. in physiology and pharmacology and likes to write about neuroscience,
biology, climate and more. She thinks Porgs are an invasive species.

###  Classroom Resources for This Article

    * Power Words 

Readability Score: 7

####  NGSS Codes:

HS-LS1-5, MS-LS1-6

###  Related Stories

    1. Chemistry 

###  Scientists look to hack photosynthesis for a ‘greener’ planet

By Lindsay PattersonDecember 5, 2019

    2. Physics 

###  How to turn a greenhouse into a powerhouse

By Alexandra TaylorFebruary 25, 2019

    3. Chemistry 

###  Sunlight might have put oxygen in Earth’s early air

By Stephen OrnesOctober 20, 2014

##  More Stories from Science News Explores on Plants

    1. Plants 

###  Could trees ever get up and walk away?

By Sophie HartleyMarch 31, 2025

    2. Plants 

###  Microbes give plants a way to make ‘meaty’ nutrients

By Skyler WareFebruary 18, 2025

    3. Chemistry 

###  Let’s learn about chocolate

By Maria TemmingFebruary 11, 2025

    4. Plants 

###  Plant and fungi parts help robots level up

By Aaron TremperJanuary 15, 2025

    5. Plants 

###  Explainer: How to identify tree species in the winter

By Sophie HartleyJanuary 6, 2025

    6. Climate 

###  Trees may be even bigger climate heroes than we thought

By Laura AllenDecember 9, 2024

    7. Plants 

###  Catapulting pollen helps this flower beat out its rivals

By Nala RogersNovember 25, 2024

    8. Plants 

###  Are plants intelligent? It seems to depend on how you define it

By Avery Elizabeth HurtNovember 21, 2024

## Science News Explores

Founded in 2003, Science News Explores is a free, award-winning online
publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners,
parents and educators. The publication, as well as Science News magazine, are
published by the Society for Science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership
organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and
education.

    * Science News
    * Science News Learning

###  Subscriber Services

    * Subscribe 
    * Renew 
    * Give a Gift Subscription 
    * Customer Service 
    * Follow Science News on Facebook
    * Follow Science News on X
    * Follow Science News via RSS
    * Follow Science News on Instagram

###  More Information

    * Using Science News Explores in the Classroom 
    * Rights & Permissions 
    * Newsletters 

###  Society for Science

    * About the Society 
    * Donate 
    * Careers 

(C) Society for Science & the Public 2000–2025. All rights reserved.

1719 N St. NW, Washington, DC 20036 202.785.2255 Terms of Service Privacy
Policy

