  * Home ****
    * Science Notes Posts
    * Contact Science Notes
    * About Science Notes
      * Todd Helmenstine Biography
      * Anne Helmenstine Biography
  * Periodic Tables ****
    * Free Printable Periodic Tables (PDF and PNG)
    * Periodic Table Wallpapers
    * Interactive Periodic Table
    * Periodic Table Posters
  * Science Projects ****
    * Science Experiments for Kids
    * How to Grow Crystals
    * Chemistry Projects
    * Fire and Flames Projects
    * Holiday Science
  * Homework Problems ****
    * Chemistry Problems With Answers
    * Physics Problems
    * Unit Conversion Example Problems
  * Worksheets ****
    * Chemistry Worksheets
    * Biology Worksheets
    * Periodic Table Worksheets
    * Physical Science Worksheets
    * Science Lab Worksheets
  * Redbubble
  * My Amazon Books

Search for:

Home » Science Notes Posts » Physics » Physics Example Problems » Friction
Example Problem - Sliding Down An Inclined Plane

# Friction Example Problem - Sliding Down An Inclined Plane 1

This entry was posted on July 28, 2014 by Todd Helmenstine (updated on May 2,
2021)

* * *

The "block sliding down an inclined plane" is a common first year homework
problem dealing with friction. This problem is a relatively simple example
problem but can be made even easier with a trick. While it isn't an Earth
shattering trick, it does not always occur to the new physics student. This
worked solution of this classic problem uses that trick.

**Problem:  
** A mass of weight w sits on a level surface. One end of the surface is
raised until the block begins to slide down the ramp at a constant velocity.
What is the coefficient of friction between the block and the incline plane?

**Solution:  
** This illustration shows the forces at work when the block is in motion.

The normal force N is perpendicular to the surface of the ramp. The frictional
force Ff acts parallel to the ramp's surface and resists the motion of the
block. The weight w pulls vertically down. The angle between the ground and
the ramp's surface is θ.

Now for the trick. Most students will immediately make their coordinate system
parallel to the ground (up-down, left-right). You can save yourself a lot of
trigonometry if you choose to align the coordinate system with the incline of
the ramp and the positive x direction is down the ramp. See, not Earth
shattering like I said, but extremely useful in simplifying the problem. Now
our forces can be broken up into x- and y- components.

In the x-direction, the sum of the forces are:

ΣFx = w·sinθ - Ff

We know the force of friction Ff = μN. Since the block is moving, the μ we use
is the coefficient of kinetic friction: μk.

ΣFx = w·sinθ - μkN

Since the system is in equilibrium (constant velocity) the sum of all the
forces is equal to zero.

w·sinθ - μkN = 0  
or  
w·sinθ = μkN

Now for the y-direction. Again the sum of the forces is equal to zero.

ΣFy = 0  
ΣFy = N - w·cosθ

0 = N - w·cosθ  
or  
N = w·cosθ

Plug this solution into the result we got from the x-direction.

w·sinθ = μk(w·cosθ)

Solve for μk

μk = tanθ

**Answer:  
** The coefficient of kinetic friction between the block and the surface of
the inclined plane is equal to the tangent of the angle formed between the
ground and the surface of the ramp when the block is moving at a constant
velocity.

For more about friction force, coefficients of friction and another example
problem, look at this link: Friction Example Problem – Physics Homework Help.

### _Related Posts_

* * *

### Categories

CategoriesSelect Category4th of July7th Grade ScienceAlchemyAnalytical
ChemistryAstronomyBiochemistryBiologyBiology DictionaryChemistryChemistry
DictionaryChemistry NotesChemistry ProblemsChemistry ProjectsCrystalsElement
GroupsElement QuizzesElementsEnergyEventsFamous ScientistsFire and Flames
ProjectsFood ChemistryFree Science PrintablesGeologyGlow in the
DarkHalloweenHoliday ScienceHow Stuff WorksIceland Solar Eclipse and
AuroraLaboratoryMarine
BiologyMaterialsMathematicsMeasurementNanochemistryOceanographyOpticsPeriodic
TablePhysicsPhysics Example ProblemsScience DictionariesScience FairScience
HistoryScience NotesScience Notes by GradeScience ProjectsScience
QuizzesScientific MethodTechTravelUncategorizedWeatherWorksheets and Quizzes

  * Free Printable Periodic Tables (PDF and PNG)
  * Printable Periodic Table
  * Periodic Table with Charges - 118 Elements
  * Periodic Table with Atomic Mass
  * What's New at Science Notes - Periodic Tables and More

* (C) 2025 Science Notes and Projects * Designed by Press Customizr *  
* Cookies Policy * Terms of Service *

__

