This page has been archived and is no longer updated



Aa Aa Aa

#  Photosynthetic Cells

##  

Cells get nutrients from their environment, but where do those nutrients come
from? Virtually all organic material on Earth has been produced by cells that
convert energy from the Sun into energy-containing macromolecules. This
process, called photosynthesis, is essential to the global carbon cycle and
organisms that conduct photosynthesis represent the lowest level in most food
chains (Figure 1).

  

Figure 1: Photosynthetic plants synthesize carbon-based energy molecules from
the energy in sunlight. Consequently, they provide an abundance of energy for
other organisms.

Plants exist in a wide variety of shapes and sizes. (A) _Coleochaete
orbicularis_ (Charophyceae) gametophyte; magnification x 75 (photograph
courtesy of L. E. Graham). (B) Chara (Charophyceae) gametophyte; magnification
x 1.5 (photograph courtesy of M. Feist). (C) Riccia (liverwort) gametophyte
showing sporangia (black) embedded in the thallus; magnification x 5
(photograph courtesy of A. N. Drinnan). (D) Anthoceros (hornwort) gametophyte
showing unbranched sporophytes; magnification x 2.5 (photograph courtesy of A.
N. Drinnan). (E) Mnium (moss) gametophyte showing unbranched sporophytes with
terminal sporangia (capsule); magnification x 4.5 (photograph courtesy of W.
Burger). (F) Huperzia (clubmoss) sporophyte with leaves showing sessile yellow
sporangia; magnification x 0.8. (G) Dicranopteris (fern) sporophyte showing
leaves with circinate vernation; magnification x 0.08. (H) Psilotum (whisk
fern) sporophyte with reduced leaves and spherical synangia (three fused
sporangia); magnification x 0.4. (I) Equisetum (horsetail) sporophyte with
whorled branches, reduced leaves, and a terminal cone; magnification x 0.4.
(J) Cycas (seed plant) sporophyte showing leaves and terminal cone with seeds;
magnification x 0.05 (photograph courtesy of W. Burger).

(C) 1993 Elsevier Part A: Graham, L. E. _Origin of land plants_. New York: J.
Wiley and Sons, 1993. All rights reserved. Part B: courtesy of M. Feist,
University of Montpellier. Parts C and D: courtesy of Andrew Drinnan,
Univeristy of Melbourne, School of Botany. Parts E, F and J: Courtesy of
William Burger, Field Museum, Chicago.

Figure Detail

##  What Is Photosynthesis? Why Is it Important?

Most living things depend on photosynthetic cells to manufacture the complex
organic molecules they require as a source of energy. Photosynthetic cells are
quite diverse and include cells found in green plants, phytoplankton, and
cyanobacteria. During the process of photosynthesis, cells use carbon dioxide
and energy from the Sun to make sugar molecules and oxygen. These sugar
molecules are the basis for more complex molecules made by the photosynthetic
cell, such as glucose. Then, via respiration processes, cells use oxygen and
glucose to synthesize energy-rich carrier molecules, such as ATP, and carbon
dioxide is produced as a waste product. Therefore, the synthesis of glucose
and its breakdown by cells are opposing processes.

  

Figure 2

Figure Detail

The building and breaking of carbon-based material -- from carbon dioxide to
complex organic molecules (photosynthesis) then back to carbon dioxide
(respiration) -- is part of what is commonly called the **global carbon
cycle**. Indeed, the fossil fuels we use to power our world today are the
ancient remains of once-living organisms, and they provide a dramatic example
of this cycle at work. The carbon cycle would not be possible without
photosynthesis, because this process accounts for the "building" portion of
the cycle (Figure 2).

However, photosynthesis doesn't just drive the carbon cycle -- it also creates
the oxygen necessary for respiring organisms. Interestingly, although green
plants contribute much of the oxygen in the air we breathe, phytoplankton and
cyanobacteria in the world's oceans are thought to produce between one-third
and one-half of atmospheric oxygen on Earth.

##  What Cells and Organelles Are Involved in Photosynthesis?

  

Figure 3: Structure of a chloroplast

(C) 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved.

Photosynthetic cells contain special pigments that absorb light energy.
Different pigments respond to different wavelengths of visible light.
**Chlorophyll** , the primary pigment used in photosynthesis, reflects green
light and absorbs red and blue light most strongly. In plants, photosynthesis
takes place in chloroplasts, which contain the chlorophyll. Chloroplasts are
surrounded by a double membrane and contain a third inner membrane, called the
**thylakoid membrane** , that forms long folds within the organelle. In
electron micrographs, thylakoid membranes look like stacks of coins, although
the compartments they form are connected like a maze of chambers. The green
pigment chlorophyll is located within the thylakoid membrane, and the space
between the thylakoid and the chloroplast membranes is called the **stroma**
(Figure 3, Figure 4).

Chlorophyll A is the major pigment used in photosynthesis, but there are
several types of chlorophyll and numerous other pigments that respond to
light, including red, brown, and blue pigments. These other pigments may help
channel light energy to chlorophyll A or protect the cell from photo-damage.
For example, the photosynthetic protists called dinoflagellates, which are
responsible for the "red tides" that often prompt warnings against eating
shellfish, contain a variety of light-sensitive pigments, including both
chlorophyll and the red pigments responsible for their dramatic coloration.

  

Figure 4: Diagram of a chloroplast inside a cell, showing thylakoid stacks

Shown here is a chloroplast inside a cell, with the outer membrane (OE) and
inner membrane (IE) labeled. Other features of the cell include the nucleus
(N), mitochondrion (M), and plasma membrane (PM). At right and below are
microscopic images of thylakoid stacks called grana. Note the relationship
between the granal and stromal membranes.

(C) 2004 Nature Publishing Group Soll, J. & Schleiff, E. Protein import into
chloroplasts. _Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology_ **5,** 198-208 (2004)
doi:10.1038/nrm1333. All rights reserved.

Figure Detail

##  What Are the Steps of Photosynthesis?

Photosynthesis consists of both **light-dependent reactions** and **light-
independent reactions**. In plants, the so-called "light" reactions occur
within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned chlorophyll
pigments reside. When light energy reaches the pigment molecules, it energizes
the electrons within them, and these electrons are shunted to an electron
transport chain in the thylakoid membrane. Every step in the electron
transport chain then brings each electron to a lower energy state and
harnesses its energy by producing ATP and NADPH. Meanwhile, each chlorophyll
molecule replaces its lost electron with an electron from water; this process
essentially splits water molecules to produce oxygen (Figure 5).

  

Figure 5: The light and dark reactions in the chloroplast

The chloroplast is involved in both stages of photosynthesis. The light
reactions take place in the thylakoid. There, water (H2O) is oxidized, and
oxygen (O2) is released. The electrons that freed from the water are
transferred to ATP and NADPH. The dark reactions then occur outside the
thylakoid. In these reactions, the energy from ATP and NADPH is used to fix
carbon dioxide (CO2). The products of this reaction are sugar molecules and
various other organic molecules necessary for cell function and metabolism.
Note that the dark reaction takes place in the stroma (the aqueous fluid
surrounding the stacks of thylakoids) and in the cytoplasm.

(C) 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved.

Figure Detail

Once the light reactions have occurred, the light-independent or "dark"
reactions take place in the chloroplast stroma. During this process, also
known as carbon fixation, energy from the ATP and NADPH molecules generated by
the light reactions drives a chemical pathway that uses the carbon in carbon
dioxide (from the atmosphere) to build a three-carbon sugar called
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). Cells then use G3P to build a wide variety
of other sugars (such as glucose) and organic molecules. Many of these
interconversions occur outside the chloroplast, following the transport of G3P
from the stroma. The products of these reactions are then transported to other
parts of the cell, including the mitochondria, where they are broken down to
make more energy carrier molecules to satisfy the metabolic demands of the
cell. In plants, some sugar molecules are stored as sucrose or starch.

##  Conclusion

Photosynthetic cells contain chlorophyll and other light-sensitive pigments
that capture solar energy. In the presence of carbon dioxide, such cells are
able to convert this solar energy into energy-rich organic molecules, such as
glucose. These cells not only drive the global carbon cycle, but they also
produce much of the oxygen present in atmosphere of the Earth. Essentially,
nonphotosynthetic cells use the products of photosynthesis to do the
_opposite_ of photosynthesis: break down glucose and release carbon dioxide.

eBooks

This page appears in the following eBook

Essentials of Cell Biology, Unit 1.4

Cell Biology for Seminars, Unit 1.4

## Topic rooms within Cell Biology

Close

**No topic rooms are there.**

Loading ...  
  

Within this Subject (25)

  * Basic (25)

Or  Browse Visually

Other Topic Rooms

Genetics

  * Gene Inheritance and Transmission 
  * Gene Expression and Regulation 
  * Nucleic Acid Structure and Function 
  * Chromosomes and Cytogenetics 
  * Evolutionary Genetics 
  * Population and Quantitative Genetics 
  * Genomics 
  * Genes and Disease 
  * Genetics and Society 

Cell Biology

  * Cell Origins and Metabolism 
  * Proteins and Gene Expression 
  * Subcellular Compartments 
  * Cell Communication 
  * Cell Cycle and Cell Division 

Scientific Communication

Career Planning

  

Loading ...  
  

  

    * Student Voices 

    * Creature Cast 

    * NatureEdCast 

    * Simply Science 

    * Green Screen 

    * ConferenceCast 

    * Green Science 

    * Bio 2.0 

    * Viruses101 

    * ScholarCast 

    * The Success Code 

    * Why Science Matters 

    * Earthbound 

    * The Beyond 

    * Plant ChemCast 

    * Pop 

    * SciBytes 

    * Postcards from the Universe 

    * Brain Metrics 

    * Mind Read 

    * Eyes on Environment 

    * Accumulating Glitches 

    * Saltwater Science 

    * Microbe Matters 

  
« Prev « Prev Next » Next »

  

  

LearnCast

You have authorized LearnCasting of your reading list in Scitable. Do you want
to LearnCast this session?  

Yes

No

This article has been posted to your Facebook page via Scitable LearnCast.

Close



Change LearnCast Settings

(C) 2014 Nature Education

    * About|
    * Contact|
    * Press Room|
    * Sponsors|
    * Terms of Use|
    * Privacy Notice|
    * Glossary|
    * Catalog|
    * Home|
    * Library|
    * Blogs

Scitable Chat

    *     *     * 

  

* * *

  
  
  

    *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     * Register
    * |
    * Sign In

* * *

## Visual Browse

Close

