Skip to main content

Discover

Trips

Review

USD

Sign in

San MarcosHotelsThings to DoRestaurantsFlightsVacation RentalsCruisesRental
CarsForums

United States

Texas (TX)

San Marcos

San Marcos Restaurants

Fuego Tortilla Grill

# Fuego Tortilla Grill

Claimed

Someone from this business manages this listing.

Learn More

Share

Review

Save

4.3

4.3 of 5 bubbles

(128 reviews)

**#4** of 28 Quick Bites in San MarcosQuick Bites, Mexican, $

30

What is Travelers’ Choice?

Tripadvisor gives a Travelers’ Choice award to accommodations, attractions and
restaurants that consistently earn great reviews from travelers and are ranked
within the top 10% of properties on Tripadvisor.

Interior

1

Food

23

Menu

1

Fuego Tortilla Grill

Share

Review

Save

Order online

At a glance

Open until 11:59 PM

See all hours

913 N. I-35 Frontage Rd, San Marcos, TX 78666

Website

Menu

+1 512-754-8226Improve this listing

About

Features

CUISINES

Mexican, Southwestern, Fast Food

Meal types

Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Brunch, Late Night

Special Diets

Vegetarian friendly

FEATURES

Accepts Credit Cards

American Express

Delivery

Digital Payments

Discover

Drive Thru

Free off-street parking

Free Wifi

Mastercard

Non-smoking restaurants

Parking Available

Seating

Serves Alcohol

Takeout

Visa

Wheelchair Accessible

Location

913 N. I-35 Frontage Rd, San Marcos, TX 78666

Free off-street parking, Parking Available

Menu

* * *

* * *

Show full menu

Does this restaurant accept reservations?

Yes

No

Unsure

Order delivery

Order now

* * *

Save this restaurant

Save

Hours

Suggest an edit

Open until 11:59 PM

Sunday

12:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Monday

Closed

Tuesday

6:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Wednesday

12:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Thursday

12:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Friday

12:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Saturday

12:00 AM - 11:59 PM

Contribute

Write a review

Upload a photo

Ask a question

ReviewsQ&A

4.3

4.3 of 5 bubbles

(128)

Excellent

74

Good

31

Average

12

Poor

5

Terrible

6

Filters

English

Most recent

* * *

Kat E

2 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Amazing Mexican Food

Jan 2023 • family

The food with charred chicken is authentic Mexican food. The menu price lists
for one taco (you can obviously ask for more) but each one is an overfilled
regular 9-inch tortilla. The bowls have twice the filling. I am in San Marcos
for a week and I will visit a second time!

Read more

Written January 9, 2023

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Pamela O

Coppell1 contribution

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Family loved it, good price for good food!

Nov 2020 • none

Our family of seven (kids ranging in age from 6-14) enjoyed eating for
basically the same price as it costs us to eat at ChickFilA or In-N-Out or
Whataburger, but this was so much better! We ordered 6 of the favorite tacos,
1 pint of Mac and cheese and the chips and quezon (with drinks) it was plenty
to fill us up! Our youngest two still hand Mac and cheese left over! We are
from Dallas, this is very similar in idea to The Velvet Taco...think gourmet,
unique tacos. You get one taco but it is very filling! We dined in, good
country music and decent atmosphere. There is a drive thru as well which is
good to remember for next time.

Read more

Written November 21, 2020

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

John W

Houston17 contributions

1

5 of 5 bubbles

Yum!

Jun 2022 • none

You order at the counter and condements and drinks to the side. I was hungry
and ordered two different tacos. One was Carnita based and was Mexico tasty.
The other was a fried fish taco that was huge and cooked perfectly. They even
had a Horchata drink that was very nice. It was very tasty and well priced and
filling.

Read more

Written July 5, 2022

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Whitney R

1 contribution

0

1 of 5 bubbles

Horrible and rude

Jun 2023 • business

The service completely sucked . They acted like they couldn't hear our order
and obviously they didn't because our whole order was messed up . Got in
contact finally the next day with the rudest store manager named starr who
refused to own up to their mistakes and tried to act like we were begging for
free food . Obviously as big as our bill was we weren't begging . It was the
fact that it was 2 am and they couldn't help us but yet they are open all
night . All we wanted was our order replaced not our money because we were
wanting the same food but just done correctly and how we ordered it .

Read more

Written June 30, 2023

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Suzie H

Lake Ozark141 contributions

0

3 of 5 bubbles

Fast food Mexican

Feb 2023 • couples

We walked in expecting a nice Mexican dinner but instead this is a go to the
front to order then they bring it to you. Empty food baskets on uncleaned
tables, plastic forks and spoons, condiment on a table, self service drinks.
The food was ok but we won’t go back.

Read more

Written February 18, 2023

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Sivan M

Dallas547 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Large tacos!!

Dec 2021 • family

Similar to Torchy’s Tacos, Fuegos serves large tacos with various different
toppings and meats. I enjoyed the hippie taco, but I’m sure there are all good
options (chicken, beef, etc.). The chips and queso is also a solid option to
have on the side. Average price per person ($8-13).

Read more

Written December 31, 2021

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

LaTiffany S

Longview75 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Better than I anticipated

Jan 2020 • family

I was visiting San Marcos and my daughter and her friends, recommended this
restaurant. The food was delicious, there was a lot of variety to choose from
and it was not very expensive. I had a bowl and my son had two tacos, which
filled us up and we took the rest to go. Will definitely return here, when we
visit San Marcos again.

Read more

Written January 19, 2020

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

countrybottoms

Hazel Green6 contributions

0

2 of 5 bubbles

Nacho's Mama

Sep 2020 • couples

Awful. I wanted chicken and the young man insisted it came with Brisket. I
would not order it again. No taste, flavor. Called twice to order food and the
music was so loud he couldn't hear me. Then we walked over to order from
motel.

Read more

Written September 14, 2020

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

B D

Seymour114 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Great dinner

Apr 2023 • couples

Fast food, with slow cooked taste. Over stuffed tacos. One is more than
enough! Absolutely delicious. Order at the counter, get your number and grab a
table and enjoy! Really good queso, tons of chips!!!

Read more

Written April 19, 2023

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Laurie F

1 contribution

0

1 of 5 bubbles

Saddest Taco Ever

Mar 2025 • solo

I went for breakfast and was given the saddest taco I have ever been given in
my life. The picture speaks for itself. The bacon was thicker than the egg.

Read more

Written March 12, 2025

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Carleen D

18 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Delicious, as always

Jul 2021 • solo

I had the queso and the Veggie Monster. Always recommend!!! I've been coming
to Fuego since starting at Texas A&M, and the 2nd restaurant in San Marcos
does not disappoint.

Read more

Written July 16, 2021

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

brigittenelson75

Alvin4 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Awesome Tortilla

Jun 2019 • family

My nephews told us we had to try this place so we did and we were not
disappointed. We went a little over board but none of the choose were
disappointing. We tried the Southern Comfort, Sweet Caroline, Dr Pepper Cowboy
and Frito Bandito. All were amazing!

Read more

Written June 18, 2019

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Bonnie

Leander214 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Cheap, Fast & Tasty

May 2019 • friends

Wonderful tacos, many varieties and very tasty. Really nice staff. The
combinations were interesting, not your typical taco.

Read more

Written May 27, 2019

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Trinda L

Amarillo59 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Unique Twist to Tacos!!

May 2019 • family

This was a great find!! Very unique twist to tacos! If you are a picky or
finicky eater, this might not be the place for you. I am an adventurous eater
but sensitive to textures. Several tacos tend to have soft food items in them
and there is some fat in the meat. Each taco is large and one fills you up!
Overall, I really enjoyed this meal and would return if I ever crossed paths
again.

Read more

Written May 26, 2019

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

Tiffany H

San Marcos64 contributions

0

5 of 5 bubbles

Worth it every time

Apr 2019 • couples

I have never been disappointed! For fast food, the quality of the food is
surprisingly good. It is a little pricy, but you get more for your money
because the tacos are huge!

Read more

Written April 5, 2019

This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of
Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our
industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to
learn more.

* * *

1

2

3

4

5

6

…

Showing results 1-15 of 128

Best quick bites

See all

In-N-Out Burger

4.1

4.1 of 5 bubbles

(61 reviews)

American • $

Closed now

Chick-fil-A

4.7

4.7 of 5 bubbles

(35 reviews)

American • $

Open now

Order

Alvin Ord's Sandwich Shop

4.3

4.3 of 5 bubbles

(37 reviews)

American • $

Open now

Loli’s Café

4.7

4.7 of 5 bubbles

(33 reviews)

Mexican • $

Open now

Torchys Tacos

4.0

4 of 5 bubbles

(64 reviews)

Mexican • $

Open now

Gil's Broiler

3.9

3.9 of 5 bubbles

(97 reviews)

American • $

Open now

Order

Tantra

4.5

4.5 of 5 bubbles

(21 reviews)

Cafe • $

Open now

Raising Cane's Chicken Fingers

4.1

4.1 of 5 bubbles

(34 reviews)

American • $

Open now

Firehouse Subs

4.9

4.9 of 5 bubbles

(15 reviews)

Fast Food • $

Closed now

Order

Zaxby's

4.0

4 of 5 bubbles

(28 reviews)

American • $

Closed now

Order

Best nearby

We rank these hotels, restaurants, and attractions by balancing reviews from
our members with how close they are to this location.

Best nearby hotels

See all

Best Western San Marcos

3.7

3.7 of 5 bubbles

(337)

0.06 miles away

Red Roof Inn San Marcos

3.4

3.4 of 5 bubbles

(123)

0.08 miles away

White Rock Inn

3.0

3 of 5 bubbles

(40)

0.17 miles away

Days Inn by Wyndham San Marcos

2.9

2.9 of 5 bubbles

(266)

0.12 miles away

Best nearby restaurants

See all

Herbert's Taco Hut

4.2

4.2 of 5 bubbles

(342)

0.27 miles away

The Root Cellar Cafe

4.4

4.4 of 5 bubbles

(476)

0.89 miles away

Ivar's River Pub

4.1

4.1 of 5 bubbles

(54)

0.39 miles away

Jason's Deli

4.2

4.2 of 5 bubbles

(64)

0.4 miles away

Best nearby attractions

See all

The Meadows Center For Water And The Environment

4.5

4.5 of 5 bubbles

(329)

0.98 miles away

Rio Vista Park

5.0

5 of 5 bubbles

(3)

0.42 miles away

Bobcat stadium

4.6

4.6 of 5 bubbles

(41)

0.75 miles away

Patio Dolcetto

4.6

4.6 of 5 bubbles

(16)

0.68 miles away

Is This Your Listing?

Own or manage this property? Claim your listing for free to respond to
reviews, update your profile and much more.

Claim Your Free Listing

#

FUEGO TORTILLA GRILL, San Marcos - Menu, Prices & Restaurant Reviews - Order
Online Food Delivery - Tripadvisor

San Marcos

San Marcos TourismSan Marcos HotelsSan Marcos Bed and BreakfastSan Marcos
Vacation RentalsFlights to San MarcosSan Marcos RestaurantsThings to Do in San
MarcosSan Marcos Travel ForumSan Marcos PhotosSan Marcos Map

Hotels

All San Marcos HotelsSan Marcos Hotel DealsLast Minute Hotels in San
MarcosHotels Near MeBy Hotel Type

San Marcos MotelsSan Marcos CampgroundsSan Marcos Spa ResortsSan Marcos
Business HotelsSan Marcos Green HotelsSan Marcos Family Hotels

By Hotel Class

3-Star Hotels in San Marcos

By Hotel Brand

Hilton Hotels in San MarcosLa Quinta Inns & Suites in San MarcosMotel 6 Hotels
in San MarcosWyndham Hotels in San MarcosInterContinental (IHG) Hotels in San
MarcosChoice Hotels in San MarcosMarriott Hotels in San Marcos

Popular Amenities

San Marcos Hotels with PoolsPet Friendly Hotels in San Marcos

Popular Neighborhoods

Hotels near Rio VistaHotels near Millview EastHotels near Victory
GardensHotels near East GuadalupeHotels near Blanco GardensHotels near
DunbarHotels near CoersHotels near HeritageHotels near Millview West

Popular San Marcos Categories

San Marcos Hotels with Hot TubsSan Marcos Hotels with Heated PoolSan Marcos
Hotels with Room ServiceSan Marcos Golf HotelsSan Marcos Hotels with
BarsHotels with Free Wifi in San MarcosHotels with Military Discounts in San
MarcosSan Marcos Hotels with RestaurantsSan Marcos Pet Friendly MotelsSan
Marcos Clean Hotels

Near Landmarks

Hotels near San Marcos RiverHotels near The Meadows Center For Water And The
EnvironmentHotels near Wonder World Cave and ParkHotels near Air Carriage Over
TexasHotels near Central Texas Wing of the Commemorative Air ForceHotels near
Bobcat stadiumHotels near The Wittliff CollectionsHotels near Hays County
Historic CourthouseHotels near Silo Gallery & Glass StudiosHotels near Strahan
Coliseum

Near Airports

Hotels near Austin-Bergstrom Intl Airport (AUS)Hotels near San Antonio Intl
Airport (SAT)Motels near San Antonio Intl Airport (SAT)Motels near Austin-
Bergstrom Intl Airport (AUS)

Near Colleges

Hotels near Texas State University

Popular Hotel Categories

Popular All-Inclusive ResortsPopular Beach ResortsPopular Family
ResortsPopular All-Inclusive HotelsPopular Hotels With WaterparksPopular
Honeymoon ResortsPopular Luxury ResortsPopular All-Inclusive Family
ResortsPopular Golf ResortsPopular Spa ResortsPopular Cheap Resorts

Things to DoRestaurants

All San Marcos RestaurantsRestaurants near Fuego Tortilla GrillPopular Types
of Food

Latin Restaurants in San MarcosHawaiian Restaurants in San MarcosLebanese
Restaurants in San MarcosKorean Restaurants in San MarcosTaiwanese Restaurants
in San MarcosFast Food Restaurants in San MarcosHealthy Restaurants in San
MarcosVegan Restaurants in San MarcosGluten Free Restaurants in San
MarcosVegetarian Restaurants in San MarcosBBQ Restaurants for Lunch in San
MarcosSushi Restaurants for Lunch in San MarcosCafes for Lunch in San Marcos

Popular Dishes

Best French Toast in San MarcosBest Bangers And Mash in San MarcosBest Poutine
in San MarcosBest Corned Beef in San MarcosBest Nachos in San MarcosBest
Sandwiches in San MarcosBest Calamari in San MarcosBest Fajitas in San
MarcosBest Queso in San MarcosBest Alfredo in San MarcosBest Cobb Salad in San
MarcosBest Eggs Benedict in San MarcosBest Hummus in San MarcosBest Fish Taco
in San MarcosBest Pancakes in San Marcos

Popular Restaurant Categories

Breakfast Restaurants in San MarcosLunch Restaurants in San MarcosDinner
Restaurants in San MarcosPrivate Dining Restaurants in San MarcosFood Delivery
Restaurants in San MarcosRestaurants for Special Occasions in San MarcosCheap
Eats in San MarcosRestaurants with Outdoor Seating in San MarcosRomantic
Restaurants in San MarcosKid Friendly Restaurants in San MarcosCoffee & Tea in
San MarcosBakeries in San MarcosDesserts in San Marcos

FlightsVacation RentalsTravel StoriesCruisesRental CarsMore

ToursAdd a PlaceTravel ForumAirlinesTravelers' ChoiceHelp CenterTrip Planner

© 2025 Tripadvisor LLC All rights reserved.

Terms of UsePrivacy and Cookies StatementCookie consentSite MapHow the site
worksContact us

This is the version of our website addressed to speakers of English in the
United States. If you are a resident of another country or region, please
select the appropriate version of Tripadvisor for your country or region in
the drop-down menu. Show more

$ USD

United States

