    * Subscribe to BBC Science Focus Magazine
    * Previous Issues
    * Podcast
    * Q&A

    *     *     * News
    * Future tech
    * Nature
    * Space
    * Health

      * Wellbeing
    * Everyday science
    * Planet Earth
    * Newsletters
    * Magazine

Home

nature Photosynthesis: What is it and how does it work?

# Photosynthesis: What is it and how does it work?

Photosynthesis is essential for almost all life, and it’s the primary source
of oxygen in the atmosphere.

Holly Spanner

Published: July 27, 2022 at 10:00 am

* * *

Photosynthesis is all around us. It's happening under our feet, above our
heads and in the sunlit zones of aquatic environments. But what exactly is
photosynthesis? Why is it so important? And, when did it evolve? Answers to
these questions, and more, are below.

For those who missed it, check out these five astonishing plant adaptations or
find out whether plants are conscious.

## What is photosynthesis?

Photosynthesis is the process by which carbohydrate molecules are synthesised.
It's used by plants, algae and certain bacteriato turn sunlight, water and
carbon dioxide into oxygen and energy, in the form of sugar. It’s probably the
most important biochemical process on the planet.

Essentially, it takes the carbon dioxide expelled by all breathing organisms
and reintroduces it into the atmosphere as oxygen.

The rate of photosynthesis is affected by light intensity, the concentration
of carbon dioxide, water supply, temperature and availability of minerals. The
process takes place entirely in the chloroplasts, and it's the chlorophyll
within the chloroplasts that make the photosynthetic parts of a plant green.

Photosynthesis is important too, elsewhere in the biosphere. Both marine and
terrestrial plants remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and some of this
is precipitated back out, as shells made of calcium carbonate, or buried as
organic matter in soil.

Without photosynthesis, the carbon cycle could not occur, and we would soon
run out of food. Over time, the atmosphere would lose almost all gaseous
oxygen, and most organisms would disappear.

## How does photosynthesis work?

Plants require light energy, carbon dioxide, water and nutrients. These
ingredients come from both the adjacent atmosphere and the soil.

### Phase 1

Plants absorb sunlight through the two top layers of their leaves, the cuticle
and epidermis. These layers are thin, so light can travel through them easily.
Carbon dioxide is brought in from the atmosphere, and at the same time, water
is drawn up from the soil, into the body of the living plant.

### Phase 2

Just beneath the cuticle and epidermis are the palisade mesophyll cells. These
specialised cells are vertically elongated and arranged closely together to
maximise light absorption.

Below the palisade mesophyll cells is the spongy mesophyll tissue, which is
loosely packed for efficient gas exchange. As gases move in and out of these
cells, they dissolve in a thin layer of water that covers the cells.

Chloroplasts within the cells of the aquatic waterweed plant, elodea. © Getty
images

### Phase 3

Inside the palisade mesophyll cells are the chloroplasts, lots of them. They
contain chlorophyll, molecules that don’t absorb green wavelengths of white
light. Instead, they reflect it back to us, giving plants their green colour.

### Phase 4

Inside the chloroplast is where the magic happens. A light-dependent reaction
takes place, where energy from the light waves is absorbed and stored in
energy-carrying ATP molecules.

Then, in a light-independent reaction (the Calvin Cycle), ATP is used to make
glucose, a source of energy. Water is oxidised, carbon dioxide is reduced, and
oxygen is released into the atmosphere.

Oxygen is released via stomata in the leaves, microscopic pores that open to
both let in the carbon dioxide, and release oxygen (and water vapour).

## What is the equation for photosynthesis?

Photosynthesising organisms form the base of the food chain.

**Carbon dioxide + water (with light energy) = glucose + oxygen**

As well as the light energy, carbon dioxide and water, plants also need
nutrients, which they get from the soil. These nutrients are released again,
or recycled, when the plant tissue dies and begins decomposing in the soil.

Oxygen in the form of gas molecules (O2) is actually a by-product of
photosynthesis, but it's responsible for the oxygen in the air that keeps us
alive. Plants also release energy and water to the atmosphere through
respiration.

**6CO 2+ 6H2O → C6H12O6+ 6O2**

The balanced equation takes it a little further. Six carbon dioxide molecules
and six water molecules (the reactants) are converted into one sugar molecule
(C6H12O6) and six oxygen molecules, via the light energy captured by the
chlorophyll.

## Photosynthesis and the food chain

During photosynthesis, energy passes through the system, and you can think of
photosynthesis as an energy flow system, tracing the path of solar energy
through the ecosystem. This energy is stored by the primary producers, the
photosynthesising organisms. As these organisms are eaten and digested by the
primary consumers, chemical energy is released and this is used to power new
biochemical reactions.

At each level of energy transformation throughout the food chain, some energy
is lost as waste heat. In addition, a significant amount of the energy input
to each organism is used in respiration, to maintain the body of that
organism. This energy is not stored for use by other organisms higher up the
food chain. This is one of the reasons why both the number of organisms and
their total quantity of living tissue decrease as you go further up the food
chain.

## When did photosynthesis start?

The evolution of photosynthesis had immense consequences for the Earth. As
organic matter from photosynthetic life was buried in the strata, carbon was
removed from the atmosphere allowing oxygen to accumulate.

Evidence suggests that photosynthetic organisms were present around 3.2 to 3.5
billion years ago, in the form of stromatolites. Stromatolites are laminated
microbial structures (generally an alternation between light and dark
laminae), usually formed by cyanobacteria and algae, and are the oldest known
fossils, and therefore the earliest evidence of life on Earth.

Stromatolites are layered, calcareous mounds secreted from cyanobacteria and
trapped sediment. They are the oldest known fossils and the earliest evidence
of life on Earth. They are still being formed today, and these ones are from
Lake Thetis, Western Australia © Getty Images

As this early oxygen diffused into the upper atmosphere (the stratosphere),
solar radiation transformed the oxygen molecules into ozone, which created the
stratospheric ozone layer. And of course, as the ozone layer absorbs most of
the Sun's ultraviolet radiation (UV-B), it plays an important role in
protecting human health, so it's unlikely that life would have flourished
without this protective shield.

**Read more:**

    * Can any plants live without sunlight?
    * Can photosynthesis be recreated in the lab?
    * Can any animals photosynthesise?
    * Is artificial photosynthesis a promising technology for future energy production?

_To submit your questions email us at questions@sciencefocus.com (don't forget
to include your name and location)_

## Share this article

Holly Spanner

Staff Writer, BBC Science Focus

Holly is the Staff Writer for BBC Science Focus and looks after the popular
Q&A section. She holds an MSc (distinction) in Geoscience (Space and Climate
Physics) from UCL, and specialises in astronomy and earth sciences. Before
joining Our Media, she worked as a geoenvironmental consultant and engineer,
informing on ground risk and remediation in the north of England, while
hunting for exoplanets in her spare time. Alongside this, she was regional
editor of a popular theatre website for nine years, and has a solid background
in curating and developing content for the digital space. Holly is also an
artist and illustrator, and regular contributor to the craft website,
Gathered. She has previously worked with the RSPB, English Heritage, Disney,
Pilot and Brother, as well as on BBC Good Food magazine, Home Style magazine,
and Papercraft inspirations magazine. She enjoys photography and has a
sustained interest in antiques.

Plant © Getty Images

©Wang and Pan et al

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Instagram
    * Pinterest
    * Youtube
    * RSS

    * Terms & Conditions
    * Privacy policy
    * Cookies policy
    * Code of conduct
    * Licensing
    * Magazine subscriptions
    * Contact Us
    * Manage preferences

This website is owned and published by Our Media Ltd. www.ourmedia.co.uk

© Our Media 2025

__

