__

__

Search Britannica __ Click here to search __

Search Britannica __ Click here to search __

SUBSCRIBE

SUBSCRIBE

Login __

https://premium.britannica.com/premium-
membership/?utm_source=premium&utm;_medium=nav-login-
box&utm;_campaign=evergreen

____

SUBSCRIBE

    * Home
    * History & Society
    * Science & Tech
    * Biographies
    * Animals & Nature
    * Geography & Travel
    * Arts & Culture
    * ProCon
    * Money
    * Games & Quizzes
    * Videos
    * On This Day
    * One Good Fact
    * Dictionary
    * New Articles
History & Society

    * Lifestyles & Social Issues
    * Philosophy & Religion
    * Politics, Law & Government
    * World History
Science & Tech

    * Health & Medicine
    * Science
    * Technology
Biographies

    * Browse Biographies
Animals & Nature

    * Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
    * Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
    * Environment
    * Fossils & Geologic Time
    * Mammals
    * Plants
Geography & Travel

    * Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture

    * Entertainment & Pop Culture
    * Literature
    * Sports & Recreation
    * Visual Arts
    * Companions
    * Demystified
    * Image Galleries
    * Lists
    * Podcasts
    * Spotlight
    * Summaries
    * Top Questions
    * #WTFact
    * Britannica Kids

__ Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech
Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money
Videos

__ photosynthesis

__

Table of Contents

    * Introduction & Top Questions

    *  __General characteristics

      * Development of the idea
      * Overall reaction of photosynthesis
      * Basic products of photosynthesis
      * Evolution of the process

    *  __Factors that influence the rate of photosynthesis

      * Light intensity and temperature
      * Carbon dioxide
      * Water
      * Minerals
      * Internal factors

    * Energy efficiency of photosynthesis

    *  __Chloroplasts, the photosynthetic units of green plants

      * Structural features
      * Chemical composition of lamellae
        * Lipids
        * Proteins
        * Quinones

    *  __The process of photosynthesis: the light reactions

      * Light absorption and energy transfer
      * The pathway of electrons
      * Evidence of two light reactions
      * Photosystems I and II
      * Quantum requirements

    * The process of photosynthesis: the conversion of light energy to ATP

    *  __The process of photosynthesis: carbon fixation and reduction

      * Elucidation of the carbon pathway
      * The Calvin-Benson cycle
        * Carboxylation
        * Reduction
        * Isomerization/condensation/dismutation
        * Phosphorylation
      * Regulation of the cycle
      * Products of carbon reduction
      * Photorespiration
      * Carbon fixation in C4 plants
      * Carbon fixation via crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM)

    * Differences in carbon fixation pathways

    * The molecular biology of photosynthesis

References & Edit History Related Topics

Images & Videos

__

__

__

__

__

__

For Students

Pop Quiz: 13 Things to Know About Photosynthesis

photosynthesis summary

Quizzes

Biology Bonanza

Related Questions

    * Why is photosynthesis important?
    * What is the basic formula for photosynthesis?
    * Which organisms can photosynthesize?

Read Next

What did Jan Ingenhousz discover about photosynthesis?

Do Plants Feel Pain?

What Does Photosynthesis Produce?

Do Plants Emit Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide at Night?

Why Is Grass Green?

Discover

9 of the World’s Deadliest Snakes

What Do Eggs Have to Do with Easter?

9 Mind-Altering Plants

6 Important Mughal Emperors

How Deadly Is Quicksand?

The Fastest Animals on Earth

Titanosaurs: 8 of the World's Biggest Dinosaurs

__

__Contents

Health & Medicine Anatomy & Physiology

__

Photosynthesis Diagram of photosynthesis showing how water, light, and carbon
dioxide are absorbed by a plant to produce oxygen, sugars, and more carbon
dioxide. (more)

# photosynthesis

biology

Ask the Chatbot a Question

__More Actions

__Print

_print_ Print

Please select which sections you would like to print:

    * Table Of Contents

__Cite

_verified_ Cite

While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be
some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other
sources if you have any questions.

Select Citation Style

MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style

__ Copy Citation

__Share

__Share

Share to social media

Facebook X

URL

https://www.britannica.com/science/photosynthesis

__Feedback

__External Websites

Feedback

Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to
improve this article (requires login).

Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar
Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other

Your Feedback Submit Feedback

Thank you for your feedback

Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise
the article.

External Websites

    * Understanding Global Change - Photosynthesis
    * CORE - Photosynthesis in vine leaves as a function of light intensity, temperature, and leaf age
    * Khan Academy - Photosynthesis
    * Biology LibreTexts - Photosynthesis
    * University of Florida - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - Photosynthesis
    * Milne Library - Inanimate Life - Photosynthesis
    * National Center for Biotechnology Information - PubMed Central - Photosynthesis: basics, history and modelling
    * Roger Williams University Pressbooks - Introduction to Molecular and Cell Biology - Photosynthesis
    * BCcampus Open Publishing - Concepts of Biology – 1st Canadian Edition - Overview of Photosynthesis

Britannica Websites

Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school
students.

    * photosynthesis - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)
    * photosynthesis - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)

Ask the Chatbot a Question

Written by

James Alan Bassham

Senior Scientist, Chemical Biodynamics Division, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory,
University of California, Berkeley, 1978–86; Research Chemist, 1949–77.
Coauthor of _Photosynthesis of Carbon Compounds;..._

James Alan Bassham,

Hans Lambers

Head of the School of Plant Biology, University of Western Australia, Crawley,
Western Australia.

Hans Lambers•All

Fact-checked by

The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica

Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have
extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on
that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and
verify and edit content received from contributors.

The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica

Last Updated: Apr 8, 2025 • Article History

__Table of Contents

__Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot  

Key People:

    Joseph Priestley     Melvin Calvin     Jan Ingenhousz     Jean Senebier     Robert Huber _(Show  more)_ 

Related Topics:

    How Do Plants Grow?     chlorophyll     photolysis     Why Are Plants Green?     cyclic electron flow _(Show  more)_

See all related content

Top Questions

###

Why is photosynthesis important?

__

Photosynthesis is critical for the existence of the vast majority of life on
Earth. It is the way in which virtually all energy in the biosphere becomes
available to living things. As primary producers, photosynthetic organisms
form the base of Earth’s food webs and are consumed directly or indirectly by
all higher life-forms. Additionally, almost all theoxygen in the atmosphere is
due to the process of photosynthesis. If photosynthesis ceased, there would
soon be little food or other organic matter on Earth, most organisms would
disappear, and Earth’s atmosphere would eventually become nearly devoid of
gaseous oxygen.

###

What is the basic formula for photosynthesis?

__

The process of photosynthesis is commonly written as: 6CO 2 + 6H2O → C6H12O6 +
6O2. This means that the reactants, six carbon dioxide molecules and six water
molecules, are converted by light energy captured by chlorophyll (implied by
the arrow) into a sugar molecule and six oxygen molecules, the products. The
sugar is used by the organism, and the oxygen is released as a by-product.

###

Which organisms can photosynthesize?

__

The ability to photosynthesize is found in botheukaryotic and prokaryotic
organisms. The most well-known examples are plants, as all but a very few
parasitic or mycoheterotrophic species contain chlorophyll and produce their
own food. Algae are the other dominant group of eukaryotic photosynthetic
organisms. All algae, which include massive kelps and microscopic diatoms, are
important primary producers. Cyanobacteria and certain sulfur bacteria are
photosynthetic prokaryotes, in whom photosynthesis evolved. No animals are
thought to be independently capable of photosynthesis, though the emerald
green sea slug can temporarily incorporate algae chloroplasts in its body for
food production.

##  News •

First bacteria used oxygen one billion years earlier than we thought • Apr. 7,
2025, 6:01 AM ET (Earth.com)

Show less __

**photosynthesis** , the process by which green plants and certain other
organisms transform light energy into chemical energy. During photosynthesis
in green plants, light energy is captured and used to convert water, carbon
dioxide, and minerals into oxygen and energy-rich organic compounds.

It would be impossible to overestimate the importance of photosynthesis in the
maintenance of life on Earth. If photosynthesis ceased, there would soon be
little food or other organic matter on Earth. Most organisms would disappear,
and in time Earth’s atmosphere would become nearly devoid of gaseous oxygen.
The only organisms able to exist under such conditions would be the
chemosynthetic bacteria, which can utilize the chemical energy of certain
inorganic compounds and thus are not dependent on the conversion of light
energy.

__

How are plant cells different from animal cells? All living things are
composed of cells.(more)

See all videos for this article

Energy produced by photosynthesis carried out by plants millions of years ago
is responsible for the fossil fuels (i.e., coal, oil, and gas) that power
industrial society. In past ages, green plants and small organisms that fed on
plants increased faster than they were consumed, and their remains were
deposited in Earth’s crust by sedimentation and other geological processes.
There, protected from oxidation, these organic remains were slowly converted
to fossil fuels. These fuels not only provide much of the energy used in
factories, homes, and transportation but also serve as the raw material for
plastics and other synthetic products. Unfortunately, modern civilization is
using up in a few centuries the excess of photosynthetic production
accumulated over millions of years. Consequently, the carbon dioxide that has
been removed from the air to make carbohydrates in photosynthesis over
millions of years is being returned at an incredibly rapid rate. The carbon
dioxide concentration in Earth’s atmosphere is rising the fastest it ever has
in Earth’s history, and this phenomenon is expected to have major implications
on Earth’s climate.

Requirements for food, materials, and energy in a world where human population
is rapidly growing have created a need to increase both the amount of
photosynthesis and the efficiency of converting photosynthetic output into
products useful to people. One response to those needs—the so-called Green
Revolution, begun in the mid-20th century—achieved enormous improvements in
agricultural yield through the use of chemical fertilizers, pest and plant-
disease control, plant breeding, and mechanized tilling, harvesting, and crop
processing. This effort limited severe famines to a few areas of the world
despite rapid population growth, but it did not eliminate widespread
malnutrition. Moreover, beginning in the early 1990s, the rate at which yields
of major crops increased began to decline. This was especially true for rice
in Asia. Rising costs associated with sustaining high rates of agricultural
production, which required ever-increasing inputs of fertilizers and
pesticides and constant development of new plant varieties, also became
problematic for farmers in many countries.

A second agricultural revolution, based on plant genetic engineering, was
forecast to lead to increases in plant productivity and thereby partially
alleviate malnutrition. Since the 1970s, molecular biologists have possessed
the means to alter a plant’s genetic material (deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA)
with the aim of achieving improvements in disease and drought resistance,
product yield and quality, frost hardiness, and other desirable properties.
However, such traits are inherently complex, and the process of making changes
to crop plants through genetic engineering has turned out to be more
complicated than anticipated. In the future such genetic engineering may
result in improvements in the process of photosynthesis, but by the first
decades of the 21st century, it had yet to demonstrate that it could
dramatically increase crop yields.

Britannica Quiz

Pop Quiz: 13 Things to Know About Photosynthesis

Another intriguing area in the study of photosynthesis has been the discovery
that certain animals are able to convert light energy into chemical energy.
The emerald green sea slug (_Elysia chlorotica_), for example, acquires genes
and chloroplasts from _Vaucheria litorea_ , an alga it consumes, giving it a
limited ability to produce chlorophyll. When enough chloroplasts are
assimilated, the slug may forgo the ingestion of food. The pea aphid
(_Acyrthosiphon pisum_) can harness light to manufacture the energy-rich
compound adenosine triphosphate (ATP); this ability has been linked to the
aphid’s manufacture of carotenoid pigments.

## General characteristics

## Development of the idea

The study of photosynthesis began in 1771 with observations made by the
English clergyman and scientist Joseph Priestley. Priestley had burned a
candle in a closed container until the air within the container could no
longer support combustion. He then placed a sprig of mint plant in the
container and discovered that after several days the mint had produced some
substance (later recognized as oxygen) that enabled the confined air to again
support combustion. In 1779 the Dutch physician Jan Ingenhousz expanded upon
Priestley’s work, showing that the plant had to be exposed to light if the
combustible substance (i.e., oxygen) was to be restored. He also demonstrated
that this process required the presence of the green tissues of the plant.

Are you a student?

Get a special academic rate on Britannica Premium.

Subscribe

In 1782 it was demonstrated that the combustion-supporting gas (oxygen) was
formed at the expense of another gas, or “fixed air,” which had been
identified the year before as carbon dioxide. Gas-exchange experiments in 1804
showed that the gain in weight of a plant grown in a carefully weighed pot
resulted from the uptake of carbon, which came entirely from absorbed carbon
dioxide, and water taken up by plant roots; the balance is oxygen, released
back to the atmosphere. Almost half a century passed before the concept of
chemical energy had developed sufficiently to permit the discovery (in 1845)
that light energy from the sun is stored as chemical energy in products formed
during photosynthesis.

## Overall reaction of photosynthesis

In chemical terms, photosynthesis is a light-energized oxidation–reduction
process. (Oxidation refers to the removal of electrons from a molecule;
reduction refers to the gain of electrons by a molecule.) In plant
photosynthesis, the energy of light is used to drive the oxidation of water
(H2O), producing oxygen gas (O2), hydrogen ions (H+), and electrons. Most of
the removed electrons and hydrogen ions ultimately are transferred to carbon
dioxide (CO2), which is reduced to organic products. Other electrons and
hydrogen ions are used to reduce nitrate and sulfate to amino and sulfhydryl
groups in amino acids, which are the building blocks of proteins. In most
green cells, carbohydrates—especially starch and the sugar sucrose—are the
major direct organic products of photosynthesis. The overall reaction in which
carbohydrates—represented by the general formula (CH2O)—are formed during
plant photosynthesis can be indicated by the following equation:

This equation is merely a summary statement, for the process of photosynthesis
actually involves numerous reactions catalyzed by enzymes (organic catalysts).
These reactions occur in two stages: the “light” stage, consisting of
photochemical (i.e., light-capturing) reactions; and the “dark” stage,
comprising chemical reactions controlled by enzymes. During the first stage,
the energy of light is absorbed and used to drive a series of electron
transfers, resulting in the synthesis of ATP and the electron-donor-reduced
nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH). During the dark stage, the
ATP and NADPH formed in the light-capturing reactions are used to reduce
carbon dioxide to organic carbon compounds. This assimilation of inorganic
carbon into organic compounds is called carbon fixation.

During the 20th century, comparisons between photosynthetic processes in green
plants and in certain photosynthetic sulfur bacteria provided important
information about the photosynthetic mechanism. Sulfur bacteria use hydrogen
sulfide (H2S) as a source of hydrogen atoms and produce sulfur instead of
oxygen during photosynthesis. The overall reaction is

In the 1930s Dutch biologist Cornelis van Niel recognized that the utilization
of carbon dioxide to form organic compounds was similar in the two types of
photosynthetic organisms. Suggesting that differences existed in the light-
dependent stage and in the nature of the compounds used as a source of
hydrogen atoms, he proposed that hydrogen was transferred from hydrogen
sulfide (in bacteria) or water (in green plants) to an unknown acceptor
(called A), which was reduced to H2A. During the dark reactions, which are
similar in both bacteria and green plants, the reduced acceptor (H2A) reacted
with carbon dioxide (CO2) to form carbohydrate (CH2O) and to oxidize the
unknown acceptor to A. This putative reaction can be represented as:

Van Niel’s proposal was important because the popular (but incorrect) theory
had been that oxygen was removed from carbon dioxide (rather than hydrogen
from water, releasing oxygen) and that carbon then combined with water to form
carbohydrate (rather than the hydrogen from water combining with CO2 to form
CH2O).

By 1940 chemists were using heavy isotopes to follow the reactions of
photosynthesis. Water marked with an isotope of oxygen (18O) was used in early
experiments. Plants that photosynthesized in the presence of water containing
H218O produced oxygen gas containing 18O; those that photosynthesized in the
presence of normal water produced normal oxygen gas. These results provided
definitive support for van Niel’s theory that the oxygen gas produced during
photosynthesis is derived from water.

