Articles

## Article Categories

close

TechnologyAcademics & The ArtsHome, Auto, & HobbiesBody, Mind, &
SpiritBusiness, Careers, & Money

Books

## Book Categories

close

TechnologyAcademics & The ArtsHome, Auto, & HobbiesBody, Mind, &
SpiritBusiness, Careers, & Money

Collections

## Collections

Explore all collections

close

BYOB (Be Your Own Boss)Be a Rad DadCareer ShiftingContemplating the CosmosFor
Those Seeking Peace of MindFor the Aspiring AficionadoFor the Budding Cannabis
EnthusiastFor the College BoundFor the Exam-Season CrammerFor the Game Day
Prepper

Custom Solutions

Log in

Thank you! Your submission has been received!

Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.

  * Article Categories

  * Book Categories

  * Collections

  * Custom Solutions
  * Log In

  * Main Menu

  * ## Article Categories

  * Technology
  * Academics & The Arts
  * Home, Auto, & Hobbies
  * Body, Mind, & Spirit
  * Business, Careers, & Money
  * Log In

  * Main Menu

  * ## Book Categories

  * Technology
  * Academics & The Arts
  * Home, Auto, & Hobbies
  * Body, Mind, & Spirit
  * Business, Careers, & Money
  * Log In

  * Main Menu

  * ## Collections

Explore all collections

  * BYOB (Be Your Own Boss)
  * Be a Rad Dad
  * Career Shifting
  * Contemplating the Cosmos
  * For Those Seeking Peace of Mind
  * For the Aspiring Aficionado
  * For the Budding Cannabis Enthusiast
  * For the College Bound
  * For the Exam-Season Crammer
  * For the Game Day Prepper
  * Log In

Home

Academics & The Arts Articles

Science Articles

Physics Articles

# Kinetic Friction along Ramps

**By:**

Steven Holzner

|

Updated:

2016-03-26 10:46:49

|

From The Book:  

Physics I Workbook For Dummies with Online Practice

  *   *   *   *   * 

  *   *   *   *   * 

**Download E-Book**

Physics I Workbook For Dummies with Online Practice

Explore Book

Astrophysics For Dummies

**Explore Book**

Buy On Amazon

Two kinds of friction — static and kinetic — mean that you have to handle ramp
problems where kinetic friction is involved as well as problems where static
friction is involved. Kinetic friction is involved any time an object is
moving up or down a ramp.. You can solve problems with kinetic friction as
easily as those that involve static friction.

Here’s the equation for the force needed to get an object moving and thus
overcome static friction:

To convert this equation to using kinetic friction, all you have to do is to
change from using the coefficient of static friction to using the coefficient
of kinetic friction:

That’s all there is to it.

## Sample question

  1. Suppose that you’re pushing a 40.0-kg plastic crate up a 19.0-degree ramp.

The coefficient of kinetic friction is 0.100, and you need to apply a force to
keep the crate moving. What is the force you will need to apply?

The correct answer is 165 N.

    1. The equation here is

    2. ****Putting in the numbers gives you F =128 + 37 = 165 N.

## Practice questions

  1. You’re dragging your little sister up the 25-degree wheelchair ramp at the doctor’s office.

If she has a mass of 30.0 kg and the coefficient of kinetic friction is 0.10,
how much force will you need to apply to keep her going?

  2. You’re pushing a box of books with a mass of 25 kg up a 40-degree ramp.

If the coefficient of kinetic friction is 0.27, how much force will you need
to apply to keep the box moving up the ramp?

  3. **__**You’re pushing a chest of drawers up an 18-degree ramp.

If it has a mass of 50.0 kg and the coefficient of kinetic friction is 0.20,
how much force will you need to keep it moving?

  4. You want to keep a 120-kg refrigerator moving up a 23-degree ramp.

If the coefficient of kinetic friction is 0.20, how much force will you need
to keep it moving?

Following are answers to the practice questions:

  1. 150 N

    1. Determine the forces you need to overcome: The force due to gravity is

__and the force due to kinetic friction is

__You need to find the normal force.

    2. The equation for normal force is

__Use the normal force to calculate the force due to kinetic friction:

    3. The force you have to overcome is

    4. Plug in the numbers:

  2. 210 N

    1. Calculate the forces you need to overcome: The force due to gravity is

__and the force due to kinetic friction is

You need to find the normal force.

    2. The equation for normal force is

__Use the normal force to calculate the force due to kinetic friction:

    3. The force you have to overcome to keep the box moving is

    4. Plug in the numbers:

  3. 240 N

    1. Calculate the forces you need to overcome: The force due to gravity is

and the force due to kinetic friction is

You need to find the normal force.

    2. The equation for normal force is

Use the normal force to calculate the force due to kinetic friction:

    3. The force you have to overcome to keep the chest of drawers moving is

    4. ****Plug in the numbers:

  4. 680 N

    1. Calculate the forces you need to overcome: The force due to gravity is

__and the force due to kinetic friction is

__You need to find the normal force.

    2. The equation for normal force is

__Use the normal force to calculate the force due to kinetic friction:

    3. The force you have to overcome to keep the refrigerator moving is

    4. Plug in the numbers:

## About This Article

### This article is from the book:

Physics I Workbook For Dummies with Online Practice

### **About the book author:**

**Dr. Steven Holzner** has written more than 40 books about physics and
programming. He was a contributing editor at _PC Magazine_ and was on the
faculty at both MIT and Cornell. He has authored Dummies titles including
_Physics For Dummies_ and _Physics Essentials For Dummies._ Dr. Holzner
received his PhD at Cornell.

### This article can be found in the category:

Physics

Trending

Generative AI For Dummies Cheat Sheet

How to Play Rummy: All You Need to Know

MacOS Monterey For Dummies Cheat Sheet

Doodle Dogs For Dummies Cheat Sheet

Trig Identities for Pre-Calculus

From Category

Physics

Astrophysics for Dummies Cheat Sheet

String Theory For Dummies Cheat Sheet

Physics II For Dummies Cheat Sheet

Thermodynamics For Dummies Cheat Sheet

Optics For Dummies Cheat Sheet

### Quick Links

About For DummiesContact UsActivate Online Content

### Connect

  * 

### About Dummies

Dummies has always stood for taking on complex concepts and making them easy
to understand. Dummies helps everyone be more knowledgeable and confident in
applying what they know. Whether it's to pass that big test, qualify for that
big promotion or even master that cooking technique; people who rely on
dummies, rely on it to learn the critical skills and relevant information
necessary for success.

Copyright © 2000-2025 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., or related companies. All
rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of
artificial technologies or similar technologies.  
© 2025 MARVEL

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy

Cookie Settings

Do Not Sell My Personal Info - CA Only

