  * Forums
  * Football
    * News
    * Schedule
    * SEC Standings
    * Roster
    * Staff
    * Class Breakdown
  * Recruiting
    * News
    * A&M Commits
    * A&M Offers
    * Liucci 44
    * Rankings
    * Out of State
    * All Recruits
    * Basketball Recruiting
  * Sports
    * Football
    * Basketball
    * Baseball
    * Women's Basketball
    * Soccer
    * Softball
    * Volleyball
  * Premium
    * Premium Feed
    * Chat
    * Subscription Benefits
    * Subscribe Now
  * Sponsors
    * Sponsors
    * Advertise With Us
  * United
  * More
    * Podcasts
    * Media
    * TexAgs Live
    * Post of the Day
    * iOS App
    * Search
    * Store
    * Pick-Off
    * 12th Man Foundation
    * Our Staff
    * Contact Us
    * Help Center

Live

LIVE CHAT

0 USERS

subscribe

Log In | Register

  *   * admin menu

Sports Forums

Billy Liucci's TexAgs Premium  The Premium Pub  Aggies Only  Varsity  Texas
A&M Football  Texas A&M Men's Basketball  Texas A&M Women's Basketball  Texas
A&M Baseball & Softball  Texas A&M Soccer  SEC Country  Old Rivalries  NFL &
Fantasy Football  NBA & Other Basketball  MLB & Other Baseball  Recruiting
Outdoors  Golf  Other Sports  Ticket Exchange

General Forums

Five Star General  General  The Student Section  Job Network  Entertainment
Food & Spirits  Bonfire  Religion & Philosophy  Politics  Business & Investing
Real Estate  Academics  Automotive  The Nerdery  Health & Fitness  Military
History  Classifieds  Travel  Home Improvement

Aggie Network Forums

Aggieland  Austin  San Antonio  Metroplex  Houston  Central Texas  Panhandle /
South Plains  West Texas  South Texas  East Texas  Gulf Coast  Around the
Nation  Across the Globe

Public Service Forums

Coronavirus/COVID-19 News & Information

Support Forums

Technical Support

Aggieland

Sponsored by

Post Reply

1 of 2

Last 1 2

Next Page

## Fuego Tortilla Grill - Welcome to myBCS!

8,119 Views | 48 Replies | Last: 14 yr ago by FuegoTortillaGrill

AmandaNorthcutt

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Aug 29, 2007

**Posts:** 4,466

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

10:59p, 7/14/10

AG

Please welcome new myBCS sponsor, Fuego Tortilla Grill! Here's a bit about
them:  
  
Fuego Tortilla Grill is like nothing else in town. This authentic Mexican taco
grill is the brain child of owner/operator Paul Moler. If you've been to
Fuego, Paul is the gentleman in the Hawaiian shirt and khaki shorts who
probably came to your table himself to greet you and make sure that both your
food and experience were top notch! Paul is a seasoned restaurateur from San
Antonio and this is his first venture in B/CS. The entire Fuego house staff is
made up of current A&M; students and the back house staff are experts in
Mexican cooking.  
  
Fuego's hours are currently 6am -10pm every day, but Paul has plans to move to
being open 24 hours this fall. Stop by Fuego for a fun dine-in experience, or
zip through the drive-thru for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Paul is very
thankful for the support of the myBCS community and is looking forward to fun
interaction, contests, and specials on the forum! Keep your eyes peeled for
tailgate packages and other Fuego announcements.  
  
As always, thank you for supporting our sponsors!  
**

Reply Quote

0

Horatius

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 3, 2008

**Posts:** 5,823

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:01p, 7/14/10

Sweet Kitten Feet

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Oct 20, 2007

**Posts:** 23,032

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:08p, 7/14/10

S

Good food**

Reply Quote

0

ShipWreckGrill

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Oct 26, 2009

**Posts:** 1,196

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:09p, 7/14/10

Welcome...Paul= good folk!**

Reply Quote

0

halfpint05

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Oct 26, 2003

**Posts:** 1,715

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:10p, 7/14/10

Welcome to mybcs/texags. Love the food! The widowmaker sauce is second to
none.**

Reply Quote

0

Costa and Andreas

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** May 12, 2010

**Posts:** 735

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:14p, 7/14/10

I have visited with Paul and like him and his restaurant very much. As a
fellow restaurant owner, much respect and well wishes.  
  
Just ate there last night with the wife and kids.  
**

Reply Quote

0

MB19

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Oct 11, 1999

**Posts:** 12,629

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:34p, 7/14/10

AG

Fuego...good stuff.**

Reply Quote

0

Flatlander

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Nov 19, 2008

**Posts:** 349

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

12:28a, 7/15/10

I tried Fuego out on day one, and have kept going back. I can't say enough
good about this place. Outstanding! Keep up the good work Paul.**

Reply Quote

0

ZachTheGoodAg

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** May 22, 2007

**Posts:** 304

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

9:31a, 7/15/10

AG

Great place. I actually was in there once and asked Paul if he had read the
comments online on myBCS.com and he wasn't familiar with it. I suggested he
ought to and I guess he did!  
  
Very good addition to our eating community.  
  
  
ZTGA**

Reply Quote

0

SeamlessHomeProd

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 17, 2010

**Posts:** 33

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

9:33a, 7/15/10

AG

Welcome!  
  
Sponsor Message: Seamless Home Products | Seamless Gutters | Insulated Patio Covers | Screened-in Porches | 979.779.3400**

Reply Quote

0

OneGood2011Ag

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jun 16, 2010

**Posts:** 3,224

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

10:34a, 7/15/10

AG

My wife and I enjoyed this place, although we apparently missed the owner when
we were there.  
  
Two comments:  
  
The Widow Maker is weak. You can't give something a name like that and still
have a customer such as myself have to go add more hot sauce and jalapenos
from the bar to make it spicy enough.  
  
The corn dish was a huge disappointment. Seriously, go find any street vendor
and let them show you how to take a cup of corn, add chile, butter, cheese,
etc. to make a really tasty treat.  
  
The tenderloin taco and the salad with the pumpkin seeds were both superb,
though, and we will be back again soon, since this is walking distance from
our home.**

Reply Quote

0

barney94

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Dec 13, 1999

**Posts:** 4,298

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:07p, 7/15/10

AG

I took my daughter there and we loved the place. We had al pastor, carnitas,
and migas - all were quite good!  
  
My only issue: you can't have a place named Fuego and have fresh salsa that is
not hot at all! It basically tasted like fresh tomatoes and salt. I went with
some of the bottled hot sauce to augment, but I think a spicy, fresh salsa
would be better.  
  
Real good food, cool concept. I'm sure when fall comes I won't be able to get
into the place, the students will like it a lot.  
  
[This message has been edited by barney94 (edited 7/15/2010 12:08p).]**

Reply Quote

0

Meghan at Traditions

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 11, 2010

**Posts:** 140

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:56p, 7/15/10

Culligan Water

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jun 17, 2010

**Posts:** 140

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:56p, 7/15/10

Welcome...I need to get over and eat at your place!**

Reply Quote

0

MarineBQ04

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Dec 19, 2003

**Posts:** 2,140

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:57p, 7/15/10

AG

The widowmaker sauce is sometimes variable. It depends upon who makes it.**

Reply Quote

0

ScreenedImages

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jun 28, 2010

**Posts:** 35

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:57p, 7/15/10

Welcome!  
  
Sponsor Message: * Screened Images * 979-260-9891 *
www.screenedimagesonline.com ***

Reply Quote

0

csagyo

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Aug 19, 2008

**Posts:** 3,621

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

2:26p, 7/15/10

Eaten there 3 times. Loved it.  
  
Sonora dog once and tacos al carbon twice.  
  
trying the fish taco next times!**

Reply Quote

0

BusAg

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Oct 25, 2001

**Posts:** 2,541

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

3:10p, 7/15/10

AG

Tried a taco recommended by a friend-pulled rotisserie chicken and added beans
and poblano queso. Tasty!  
  
Was crowded with a lunch crowd but I was there to get my order to go. Was in
and out within 5 min. **

Reply Quote

0

amadeob

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jul 15, 2010

**Posts:** 44

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

3:48p, 7/15/10

i eat at fuegos everyday sometimes several times a day. yesterday they ran out
of chicken and i notice that on the weekends the rice tastes better (different
cooks maybe) but overall they are better than any other mexican fast food
restaurant in town by far. i just hope they keep it up and get the weekend
cooks to work everyday**

Reply Quote

0

OneGood2011Ag

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jun 16, 2010

**Posts:** 3,224

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

3:56p, 7/15/10

AG

> quote:
>
> * * *
>
> several times a day
>
> * * *

  
  
You're either morbidly obese or you have one heckuva tapeworm if you eat out
SEVERAL times per day. **

Reply Quote

0

PhiAggie

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 8, 2004

**Posts:** 60,646

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

3:59p, 7/15/10

AG

Had breakfast there early this morning with a buddy of mine and had a nice
visit with the owner. Great food and good people! I also like the concept
behind the restaurant. Ill be going back often.  
  
The sausage and egg, chorizo and egg, and carne guisada tacos are delicious.  
  
**

Reply Quote

0

BCS Native

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Apr 8, 2008

**Posts:** 269

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

4:26p, 7/15/10

YUMMY!  
The best corn tortillas in town!!!  
  
My only problem is that I have troubles parking when people park along the
curb directly behind the lined parking spaces. Any way to make that a no
parking zone so cars don't get smashed by awful drivers such as myself??**

Reply Quote

0

montegobay

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jan 19, 2007

**Posts:** 3,229

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

6:58p, 7/15/10

I went today. Had a hard time parking, but I was expecting it. Had the
carnitas taco and guacamole. They were both good, but no big whoop! It's a
good place but not quite the amazing experience I was expecting after reading
this board.  
  
I actually like Fuzzy's better. They have beer and awesome tacos. **

Reply Quote

0

pattybrhg

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Mar 30, 2002

**Posts:** 2,370

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

7:39p, 7/15/10

Most of the tacos are quite good, but they need cheese in a bad way. I'm not a
big fan of the carnitas and the ridiculously fatty meat used on that one. I
literally pulled out chunks from the taco that were entirely fat with no meat.
My wife loved the fish taco, and the pastor taco is excellent.  
  
The breakfast menu is pretty much all amazing.**

Reply Quote

0

ltaylor

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jul 2, 2009

**Posts:** 178

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

8:41p, 7/15/10

Besides the two very thin very sharp bones in my sons chicken taco, the
manager spilling a whole new hot urn of tea all over my legs and feet, and
that we waited more than 25 minutes to get our funnel cakes before leaving, it
was pretty good . I must add the queso ROCKS!!!**

Reply Quote

0

muledoggie

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Aug 23, 2004

**Posts:** 69

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

8:43p, 7/15/10

AG

You can see the food is good from all these posts, but I like the prices as
well!**

Reply Quote

0

PhiAggie

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 8, 2004

**Posts:** 60,646

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

9:14p, 7/15/10

AG

I love how people base an entire experience on one single taco. How about you
try a few and then decide? **

Reply Quote

0

AggiePhil

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Dec 14, 2004

**Posts:** 5,039

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

9:28p, 7/15/10

AG

You can request that feta or grated cheddar be added to your taco at time of
order. I will warn you though that they use too much and you'll get enough for
2-3 tacos.**

Reply Quote

0

FuegoTortillaGrill

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jul 6, 2010

**Posts:** 28

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

10:15p, 7/15/10

On behalf of Fuego Tortilla Grill we would like to thank all for the kind
words and support. We are very happy that we chose College Station to develop
our new concept, it is a great community. The first six weeks have been a
great success, but we understand that we have a long way to go and are always
looking at ways to improve the concept and quality and realize that our
greatest resource is our customers, your feedback is valued and appreciated.  
  
We have recently increased the punch of our Widow Maker Sauce to add at bit
more burn while maintaining some flavor. For those looking for the crazy
factor, I will always concoct something in the back that will surely open the
glands.  
  
We used to serve the street corn with the mayo, chipotle, and chili lime, and
it was pretty good, the way I remembered in Mexico. We made a batch of
Chipotle cream corn about 3 weeks ago and had the lunch and dinner crowd
compare, all chose the chipotle cream corn. Ilove the corn from Mexico but had
to go with the customer response. If you come in though and I have time, I
will be happy to whip up some roasted corn and do it street style.  
  
The Fuego Salsa has been a work in progress, sometimes the Arbol Chilies are
hot and sometimes not so hot, the flavor of the arbols are what we want, so we
have found a way to kick up the heat factor w/o compromising the flavor. I
hope all will find on your next visit that the Fuego Salsa delivers the heat
as needed.  
  
We will always do our best to deliver the best product, fresh and hot, at a
good value. Once again thanks so much for all your support and encouragement.  
  
God Bless**

Reply Quote

0

trouble

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jul 15, 2007

**Posts:** 132,840

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

11:29p, 7/15/10

AG

We ordered from y'all Saturday night and it was simply delicious.  
  
I think there might be crack in the queso because I have been craving it all
week.  
  
We got a variety of things and everything liked their tacos. I loved the corn.  
  
We will definitely be back.**

Reply Quote

0

AggieBarstool

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jan 14, 2008

**Posts:** 8,206

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:12a, 7/16/10

Love this place! Can't say enough good things.**

Reply Quote

0

gspiller

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jun 18, 2009

**Posts:** 63

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

1:24a, 7/16/10

I think the place is awesome but the salsa on the bar is lacking. I find
myself leaning toward the hot sauces that they offer but I would love for you
to develop one that I would actually put on my taco. Beyond that I am super
excited that you are here and I will be back many times.**

Reply Quote

0

Yuccadoo

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Feb 16, 2010

**Posts:** 3,857

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

5:57a, 7/16/10

We finally 'got to the food' and it was good. First 2 times we tried, too much
in/out traffic and parking a block away. With me and the missus both
recovering from broken ankles, we had to wait until we could at least reach
the drive in, but we both enjoyed the food when we got home.  
  
**

Reply Quote

0

aggiepaintrain

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Sep 27, 2004

**Posts:** 18,418

User Profile

Private Message

Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

10:21a, 7/16/10

AG

Great restaurant!  
The flamed kissed tenderloin is the bomb..  
**

Reply Quote

0

Biggydoog

You must be a  subscriber to .

Subscribe Now

**Joined:** Jul 20, 2002

**Posts:** 1,486

User Profile Ignore User Stop Ignoring

How long do you want to ignore this user?

24 hours One week Permanently Cancel

2:02p, 7/16/10

really really like this place, but one thing for the owner on the site, would
absolutely love it if you would add shrimp tacos (grilled) to the menu. Would
be awesome, but I understand it's more expensive than beef/chicken/pork.**

Reply Quote

0

Skip to Last Page 1 Page 2

Page 1 of 2

Next Page

Page 1 of 2 ▼

Post Reply  Back to topics

**This post has been flagged.**

Click to display linked image.

Live Show

  * Home
  * Account
  * Advertise
  * Help
  * Contact
  * Terms & Privacy
  * Site Map
  * Mobile Site
  * App

Follow TexAgs

TexAgs is an independent site and is not affiliated with Texas A&M University.
(C)2025 Maroon & White LP and F5 Sports Media LLC. All rights reserved.



×

Subscribe subscribe Verify your student status Log In

See Subscription Benefits

Trial only available to users who have never subscribed or participated in a
previous trial.

