Skip to Content

eLife home page

    * Menu 
    * Home 
    * Browse 
    * Magazine 
    * Community 
    * About 

    * Search 
    * Alerts 
    * Submit your research

Search by keyword or author Reset form Search Limit my search to Structural
Biology and Molecular Biophysics

    * Magazine
    * Insight
    1. Structural Biology and Molecular Biophysics
    2. Plant Biology

# Photosynthesis: The internal plumbing of algal chloroplasts

Jan 13, 2015

https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.05983

    * Open access
    * Copyright information

    * Download 
    * Cite
    * Comment Open annotations (there are currently 0 annotations on this page). 
    * Share

    *     *     *     *     *     *     * 4,026 views
    * 235 downloads
    * 5 citations

###### Share this article

Doi

Copy to clipboard

    *     *     *     *     *     * ###### Cite this article

    1. Moritz Meyer
    2. Howard Griffiths
(2015)

Photosynthesis: The internal plumbing of algal chloroplasts

_eLife_ **4** :e05983.

https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.05983

    1. Copy to clipboard
    2. Download BibTeX
    3. Download .RIS

    1. Moritz Meyer
    2. Howard Griffiths 
    1. Cambridge University, United Kingdom;

A soil-dwelling single-celled green alga called Chlamydomonas might not seem
the most promising species to study when exploring the details of
photosynthesis. There are more prominent groups of phytoplankton that can
photosynthesize, but Chlamydomonas has become a ‘model’ eukaryotic microbe
because it is simple to transform genetically and the genome has recently been
sequenced.

In algal and plant cells, photosynthesis occurs within chloroplasts. Inside
the double membrane that surrounds the chloroplast—known as the chloroplast
envelope—light is harvested and converted into biochemical energy by
pigment–protein complexes and associated proteins found in membrane structures
called thylakoids. Loops of thylakoids merge to form an internal, acidified
compartment known as the thylakoid lumen. The thylakoids are bathed in a fluid
called the stroma, which contains enzymes that are involved in the fixation of
carbon dioxide. Each Chlamydomonas cell has a single, cup-shaped chloroplast.

An enzyme called Rubisco catalyzes the crucial first step in carbon fixation
and is found in all photosynthetic organisms. The rate of photosynthesis is
limited by the amount of CO2 available to Rubisco: this is a particular
problem in water because CO2 diffuses more slowly in water than in air and it
is mostly found in the form of bicarbonate (HCO3−). To combat this problem,
most microalgae—including Chlamydomonas—have evolved processes called carbon
concentrating mechanisms that increase the amount of CO2 around Rubisco (Raven
et al., 2014). These mechanisms enhance the efficiency of photosynthesis in
three ways: the active transport of bicarbonate into the chloroplast; the
conversion of bicarbonate back to CO2 by an enzyme called carbonic anhydrase;
and the packaging of Rubisco into a small area to minimize the leakage of CO2.

How does a carbon concentrating mechanism manage to accumulate CO2
concentrations some 50–1000 times higher than are found in the environment? In
the past this was a difficult question to answer because details of
chloroplast structure were missing. Now, in eLife, Benjamin Engel, Miroslava
Schaffer, Wolfgang Baumeister and co-workers at the Max Planck Institute of
Biochemistry have combined cryo-focussed ion beam milling and cryo-electron
tomography to provide a high-resolution 3D reconstruction of the internal
architecture of the Chlamydomonas chloroplast in a near-native state (Engel et
al., 2015).

The observations show in exquisite detail how, at the base of the chloroplast,
the tips of thylakoid membranes fuse with the inner membrane of the
chloroplast envelope. This may allow proteins from outside the chloroplast to
enter the thylakoids more easily. Also, openings through the stacks of
thylakoids allow the stroma to be continuous throughout the chloroplast. Other
insights include details of a structure called the eyespot, which enables the
alga to move in response to light.

We already knew that most of the Rubisco was confined to a small area within
the stroma—called the pyrenoid—in Chlamydomonas. The pyrenoid is usually
surrounded by a dense sheath of non-overlapping starch plates. Extensions of
thylakoid membranes, called tubules, pass through the pyrenoid (Figure 1A).
This is quite different to the structures in cyanobacteria where Rubisco is
found: these structures, which are known as carboxysomes, are separated from
the membranes that harvest light, and they have a protein coat and internal
scaffold to support the Rubisco and the carbonic anhydrase.

Figure 1

Download asset Open asset

###### An updated carbon concentrating mechanism for Chlamydomonas.

(**A**) Existing models of CO2 uptake in Chlamydomonas (Wang et al., 2011)
allow for the diffusive entry of CO2, a process facilitated by a carbonic
anhydrase, CAH1 (dark blue circle), in the periplasm. There is also a carbon
concentrating mechanism that involves the transport of bicarbonate (HCO3−)
across the plasma membrane (PM), possibly via the inorganic carbon pumps LCI1
and HLA3 (yellow barrel), and across the chloroplast envelope (CE), possibly
via the inorganic carbon pump LCIA (orange barrel). The conversion of
bicarbonate to CO2 occurs via CAH3 (light blue circles), a carbonic anhydrase
thought to be located inside the lumen of thylakoid tubules (green). When CAH3
is phosphorylated it could relocate within the pyrenoid (light grey). The pump
that transfers bicarbonate from the stroma to the lumen (red barrel) has not
yet been found. CO2 is prevented from leaking out of the pyrenoid by the
starch sheath (dark grey) and LCIB/C protein complexes (triangles). (**B**)
Observations made by Engel et al. demonstrate that minitubules (white) provide
a direct route between the stroma and the pyrenoid. This resolves how RuBP,
which is the substrate for Rubisco (see text), is channelled to the enzyme,
and how 3PGA, which is a product of the reaction between RuBP and CO2, is
channelled away. It also raises the intriguing possibility that CAH3 could be
external to the thylakoid lumen. When phosphorylated, CAH3 could relocate
close to or within the minitubules, also allowing CO2 to be delivered via the
minitubules to Rubisco without the need for an additional bicarbonate
transporter.

The three-dimensional reconstructions of the pyrenoid show how the tubules
extend from thylakoids at the interface of two starch plates, and how they
fuse and then merge at the centre of the pyrenoid. Some of these features were
visible in early electron micrograph images (Sager and Palade, 1957), but
Engel et al. reveal how additional features called minitubules are organised
within the tubules that cross the pyrenoid (Figure 1B). The minitubules
contain stroma and the latest work clearly shows that they could provide
routes for molecules to move from the stroma directly into the centre of the
pyrenoid. This would allow substrates and products to move between Rubisco and
the other enzymes involved in photosynthesis (Süss et al., 1995), and could
reduce the need to transport bicarbonate across the thylakoid membranes, as is
required in existing models (Wang et al., 2011).

Engel et al. also reveal how Rubisco is packaged in the pyrenoid. If their
proposed model of close-packing in hexagonal shapes is exact, the spacing of
Rubisco complexes leaves room for molecules of between 5 kDa and ~50 kDa,
depending on the packaging scenario. The latter is sufficient space for a
Rubisco linker protein like the one needed inside the carboxysomes of
bacteria, but it is not clear whether such proteins also exist in algae (Long
et al., 2007).

We can now superimpose these fine details onto existing models of how the
carbon concentrating mechanism in Chlamydomonas is organized (Figure 1A). When
the mechanism is switched on, bicarbonate could be converted by a stromal
carbonic anhydrase within or adjacent to the minitubules (Figure 1B) to allow
CO2 to be released at the heart of the pyrenoid.

This new model poses a number of questions. How does Rubisco move to the
pyrenoid when the carbon concentrating mechanism is switched on? What is the
trigger that modifies the thylakoid membranes to make the tubules as well as
multiple minitubules? Why do the starch plates form and surround the pyrenoid?
Efforts are being made to engineer elements of the carbon concentrating
mechanism from cyanobacteria into higher plants (Lin et al., 2014; McGrath and
Long, 2014), but what modifications would be needed to incorporate a mechanism
from algae instead?

Undoubtedly, the many genetic techniques that can be used to study
Chlamydomonas (Zhang et al., 2014) will soon resolve these questions in the
case of this particular alga. However, in the best traditions of product
placement, other forms of pyrenoid are available in different species,
including phytoplankton and one lineage of primitive land plants.
Understanding the structure of chloroplasts and the regulation of carbon
concentrating mechanisms in these organisms will continue to provide
additional challenges for the future.

Add a comment + Open annotations. The current annotation count on this page is
being calculated.

## References

    1.       1. Engel B
      2. Schaffer M
      3. Cuellar LK
      4. Villa E
      5. Plitzko J
      6. Baumeister W
(2015) Native architecture of the Chlamydomonas chloroplast revealed by in
situ cryo-electron tomography

_eLife_ **4** :e04889.

https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.04889

       * Google Scholar

    2.       1. Lin MT
      2. Occhialini A
      3. Andralojc PJ
      4. Parry MA
      5. Hanson MR
(2014) A faster Rubisco with potential to increase photosynthesis in crops

_Nature_ **513** :547–550.

https://doi.org/10.1038/nature13776

       * Google Scholar

    3.       1. Long BM
      2. Badger MR
      3. Whitney SM
      4. Price GD
(2007) Analysis of carboxysomes from the Synechococcus PCC7942 reveals
multiple Rubisco complexes within carboxysomal proteins CcmM and CcaA

_Journal of Biological Chemistry_ **282** :29323–29335.

https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M703896200

       * Google Scholar

    4.       1. McGrath JM
      2. Long SP
(2014) Can the cyanobacterial carbon-concentrating mechanism increase
photosynthesis in crop species? A theoretical analysis

_Plant Physiology_ **164** :2247–2261.

https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.113.232611

       * Google Scholar

    5.       1. Raven JA
      2. Beardall J
      3. Gordiano M
(2014) Energy costs of carbon dioxide concentrating mechanisms in aquatic
organisms

_Photosynthesis Research_ **121** :111–124.

https://doi.org/10.1007/s11120-013-9962-7

       * Google Scholar

    6.       1. Sager R
      2. Palade GE
(1957) Structure and development of the chloroplast in Chlamydomonas I. The
normal green cell

_Journal Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology_ **3** :463–488.

https://doi.org/10.1083/jcb.3.3.463

       * Google Scholar

    7.       1. Süss K-H
      2. Prokhorenko I
      3. Adler K
(1995) In Situ Association of Calvin Cycle Enzymes, Ribulose-1,5-Bisposphate
Carboxyalsae/Oxygenase Activase, Ferredoxin-NADP+ Reductase, and Nitrite
Reductase with Thylakoid and Pyrenoid Membranes of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii
Chloroplasts as Revealed by Immunoelectron Microscopy

_Plant Physiology_ **107** :1387–1397.

https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.107.4.1387

       * Google Scholar

    8.       1. Wang Y
      2. Duanmu D
      3. Spalding MH
(2011) Carbon dioxide concentrating mechanism in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii:
inorganic carbon transport and CO2 recapture

_Photosynthesis Research_ **109** :115–122.

https://doi.org/10.1007/s11120-011-9643-3

       * Google Scholar

    9.       1. Zhang R
      2. Patena W
      3. Armbruster U
      4. Gang SS
      5. Blum SR
      6. Jonikas MC
(2014) High-Throughput Genotyping of Green Algal Mutants Reveals Random
Distribution of Mutagenic Insertion Sites and Endonuclolytic Cleavage of
Transforming DNA

_The Plant Cell_ **26** :1398–1409.

https://doi.org/10.1105/tpc.114.124099

       * Google Scholar

## Article and author information

### Author details

    1. #### Moritz Meyer

Department of Plant Sciences, Cambridge University, Cambridge, United Kingdom

##### Competing interests

The authors declare that no competing interests exist.

    2. #### Howard Griffiths

Department of Plant Sciences, Cambridge University, Cambridge, United Kingdom

##### For correspondence

hg230@cam.ac.uk

##### Competing interests

The authors declare that no competing interests exist.

### Publication history

    1. Version of Record published: January 13, 2015

### Copyright

© 2015, Meyer and Griffiths

This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use and redistribution
provided that the original author and source are credited.

## Metrics

    *      4,026  

views

    *      235  

downloads

    *      5  

citations

Views, downloads and citations are aggregated across all versions of this
paper published by eLife.

## Download links

A two-part list of links to download the article, or parts of the article, in
various formats.

### Downloads (link to download the article as PDF)

    * Article PDF

### Open citations (links to open the citations from this article in various
online reference manager services)

    * Mendeley
    * ### Cite this article (links to download the citations from this article in formats compatible with various reference manager tools)

    1. Moritz Meyer
    2. Howard Griffiths
(2015)

Photosynthesis: The internal plumbing of algal chloroplasts

_eLife_ **4** :e05983.

https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.05983

    * Download BibTeX
    * Download .RIS

#### Categories and tags

    * Insight
    * Structural Biology and Molecular Biophysics
    * Plant Biology
    * Chlamydomonas
    * focused ion beam
    * cryo-electron tomography
    * chloroplast
    * thylakoid
    * Rubisco

    1.       1. Related to

####  Native architecture of the _Chlamydomonas_ chloroplast revealed by in
situ cryo-electron tomography

Benjamin D Engel, Miroslava Schaffer ... Wolfgang Baumeister

Research Article Jan 13, 2015

    2. Further reading

### Further reading

    1.       1. Structural Biology and Molecular Biophysics
      2. Plant Biology

#  Native architecture of the _Chlamydomonas_ chloroplast revealed by in situ
cryo-electron tomography

Benjamin D Engel, Miroslava Schaffer ... Wolfgang Baumeister

Research Article Jan 13, 2015

Chloroplast function is orchestrated by the organelle's intricate
architecture. By combining cryo-focused ion beam milling of vitreous
_Chlamydomonas_ cells with cryo-electron tomography, we acquired three-
dimensional structures of the chloroplast in its native state within the cell.
Chloroplast envelope inner membrane invaginations were frequently found in
close association with thylakoid tips, and the tips of multiple thylakoid
stacks converged at dynamic sites on the chloroplast envelope, implicating
lipid transport in thylakoid biogenesis. Subtomogram averaging and nearest
neighbor analysis revealed that RuBisCO complexes were hexagonally packed
within the pyrenoid, with ∼15 nm between their centers. Thylakoid stacks and
the pyrenoid were connected by cylindrical pyrenoid tubules, physically
bridging the sites of light-dependent photosynthesis and light-independent
carbon fixation. Multiple parallel minitubules were bundled within each
pyrenoid tubule, possibly serving as conduits for the targeted one-dimensional
diffusion of small molecules such as ATP and sugars between the chloroplast
stroma and the pyrenoid matrix.

    2.       1. Biochemistry and Chemical Biology
      2. Structural Biology and Molecular Biophysics

#  Kinetic regulation of kinesin’s two motor domains coordinates its stepping
along microtubules

Yamato Niitani, Kohei Matsuzaki ... Michio Tomishige

Research Article Apr 17, 2025

The two identical motor domains (heads) of dimeric kinesin-1 move in a hand-
over-hand process along a microtubule, coordinating their ATPase cycles such
that each ATP hydrolysis is tightly coupled to a step and enabling the motor
to take many steps without dissociating. The neck linker, a structural element
that connects the two heads, has been shown to be essential for head–head
coordination; however, which kinetic step(s) in the chemomechanical cycle is
‘gated’ by the neck linker remains unresolved. Here, we employed pre-steady-
state kinetics and single-molecule assays to investigate how the neck-linker
conformation affects kinesin’s motility cycle. We show that the backward-
pointing configuration of the neck linker in the front kinesin head confers
higher affinity for microtubule, but does not change ATP binding and
dissociation rates. In contrast, the forward-pointing configuration of the
neck linker in the rear kinesin head decreases the ATP dissociation rate but
has little effect on microtubule dissociation. In combination, these
conformation-specific effects of the neck linker favor ATP hydrolysis and
dissociation of the rear head prior to microtubule detachment of the front
head, thereby providing a kinetic explanation for the coordinated walking
mechanism of dimeric kinesin.

    3.       1. Structural Biology and Molecular Biophysics

#  Distinct activation mechanisms of CXCR4 and ACKR3 revealed by single-
molecule analysis of their conformational landscapes

Christopher T Schafer, Raymond F Pauszek III ... David P Millar

Research Article Apr 15, 2025

The canonical chemokine receptor CXCR4 and atypical receptor ACKR3 both
respond to CXCL12 but induce different effector responses to regulate cell
migration. While CXCR4 couples to G proteins and directly promotes cell
migration, ACKR3 is G-protein-independent and scavenges CXCL12 to regulate
extracellular chemokine levels and maintain CXCR4 responsiveness, thereby
indirectly influencing migration. The receptors also have distinct activation
requirements. CXCR4 only responds to wild-type CXCL12 and is sensitive to
mutation of the chemokine. By contrast, ACKR3 recruits GPCR kinases (GRKs) and
β-arrestins and promiscuously responds to CXCL12, CXCL12 variants, other
peptides and proteins, and is relatively insensitive to mutation. To
investigate the role of conformational dynamics in the distinct
pharmacological behaviors of CXCR4 and ACKR3, we employed single-molecule FRET
to track discrete conformational states of the receptors in real-time. The
data revealed that apo-CXCR4 preferentially populates a high-FRET inactive
state, while apo-ACKR3 shows little conformational preference and high
transition probabilities among multiple inactive, intermediate and active
conformations, consistent with its propensity for activation. Multiple active-
like ACKR3 conformations are populated in response to agonists, compared to
the single CXCR4 active-state. This and the markedly different conformational
landscapes of the receptors suggest that activation of ACKR3 may be achieved
by a broader distribution of conformational states than CXCR4. Much of the
conformational heterogeneity of ACKR3 is linked to a single residue that
differs between ACKR3 and CXCR4. The dynamic properties of ACKR3 may underly
its inability to form productive interactions with G proteins that would drive
canonical GPCR signaling.

## Be the first to read new articles from eLife

Sign up for email alerts

Privacy notice

Skip to Content

eLife home page

### Menu

    * Home
    * Browse
    * Magazine
    * Community
    * About
    * Research categories
    * Inside eLife
    * Search
    * Subscribe to alerts
    * Submit your research
    * Author guide
    * Reviewer guide
Back to top

    1.     2.     3.     4.     * About
    * Jobs
    * Who we work with
    * Alerts
    * Contact
    * Terms and conditions
    * Privacy notice
    * Inside eLife
    * Monthly archive
    * For the press
    * Resources
    * XML and Data

    *     *     *     *     *     * Find us on GitHub

eLife is a non-profit organisation inspired by research funders and led by
scientists. Our mission is to help scientists accelerate discovery by
operating a platform for research communication that encourages and recognises
the most responsible behaviours in science. eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd
is a limited liability non-profit non-stock corporation incorporated in the
State of Delaware, USA, with company number 5030732, and is registered in the
UK with company number FC030576 and branch number BR015634 at the address:
eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd  
95 Regent Street  
Cambridge CB2 1AW  
UK

© 2025 eLife Sciences Publications Ltd. Subject to a Creative Commons
Attribution license, except where otherwise noted. ISSN: 2050-084X

